"If it isn’t one thing it’s the other," said the girl with a nosebleed.
"Sour," said the fox about the rowanberries.
'tis in vain to kick after you have once put on fetters.
An ill won penny will cast down a pound.
A bad beginning makes a bad ending.
A bad beginning makes a good ending.
A bad bush is better than no shelter.
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.
A bad corn promise is better than a good lawsuit.
A bad craftsman blames his tools.
A bad excuse is better than none at all.
A bad husband cannot be a good man.
A bad name as a reward.
A bad rower blames the oar.
A bad thing never dies.
A bad workman always blames his tools.
A bad workman blames his tools.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.
A baited cat may grow as fierce as a lion.
A bald-headed man finds a comb.
A bargain is a bargain.
A barking dog does not bite.
A bat in a village without birds.
A bath whisk rears children, the wind chickens.
A beard does not grow on the bad, chin whiskers on the idle.
A beggar can never be bankrupt.
A beloved child has many names.
A benevolent God might make a master out of a slave, a merchant out of a hired man.
A bigger fish devours a smaller one.
A bird in the hand is better than ten in the forest.
A bird in the hand is better than ten on a tree.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A bird is known by its feathers.
A bird is known by its flight.
A bird is named after its song, a man after his habits.
A bird may be known by its song.
A bird that sings early in the morning is in a hawk's ass in the evening.
A bird-sized nest, an egg-sized hole.
A bitter turnip does not go bad first.
A black hen lays a white egg.
A black hen may bring forth white eggs.
A black miller and a white smith are an abomination in God's view.
A bleating sheep eats no grass.
A blind hen shall find corn.
A blind leader of the blind.
A blind man may perchance hit the mark.
A blind man shoots sometimes a crow.
A blind man should not judge of colours.
A blind man would be glad to see.
A bog pine takes after its kind.
A book does not lie.
A bridal veil brings half a worry, a wife's headdress a steady flow.
A broken friendship may be soldered, but will never be sound.
A burden of one's own choice is not felt.
A burnt child dreads fire.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
A burnt child keeps away from fire.
A burnt child shuns fire.
A camel will go through the eye of a needle before a rich man enters heaven.
A candle, by consuming itself, gives light to others.
A carefree boy without a horse: if you don't feed a horse, you can't ride it.
A cat dreams of mice.
A cat in gloves catches no mice.
A cat lands on all fours.
A cat may look at a king.
A centipede though dead will not fall.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
A cheerful look makes a dish a feast.
A cheerful wife is the joy of life.
A cheerful wife is the spice of life.
A cheerless home without master or mistress, though the day is sunny.
A chicken at home feels like daal.
A chicken likes her own eggs best.
A child laughs after having eaten and cries after having had no food.
A child should speak only when the cat is laying eggs and the chicken is pissing.
A child's heart and hands are soon filled.
A church axe and a iron shovel will pay the pauper's debts.
A city that parleys is half gotten.
A civil denial is better than a rude grant.
A clean conscience is the best pillow.
A clean fast is better than a dirty breakfast.
A clean hand wants no washing.
A clear conscience is a coat of mail.
A clear conscience laughs at false accusations.
A clenched fist can neither give nor take.
A close mouth catches no flies.
A closed mouth catches no flies.
A cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
A cock knows what is good, despite its bony beak.
A cold hand, a warm heart.
A cold May and a wet June fill the cellars and granaries.
A cold may and a wet june fill the cellars and granaries.
A colt you may break but an old horse you never can.
A company in distress makes sorrow less.
A constant drip wears the stone.
A covetous man does nothing that he should till he dies.
A cow costs a copeck in Moscow, but it costs dear when it is brought here.
A coward will never bed a pretty woman.
A cracked bell can never sound well.
A craft is no burden.
A crafty fox never preys near his den.
A creaking door hangs long on its hinges.
A crow doesn't pick out another crow's eyes.
A crow sits next to a crow.
A crow's nest can't be found if it doesn't crow.
A cuckoo calls its name.
A curst cow has short horns.
A danger foreseen is half avoided.
A dark man, a soft heart.
A day is never so long that night does not follow.
A dead wolf is a healthy sheep.
A debt never rots.
A disease known is half cured.
A distant relative is like the sixth water the churn is rinsed with.
A dog barks for anyone who feeds him.
A dog does not bark at his family members.
A dog does not bite his family members.
A dog does not eat hay nor give to others.
A dog in the manger.
A dog knows his fart, an evil-doer his deeds.
A dog knows his master.
A dog will run out of piss before a bad wife out of stories.
A dog will run out of piss before a drunkard out of spirits.
A dog won't bark if it isn't pestered, nor will a cat claw if it isn't bothered.
A drop does not fill the sea.
A drop in the bucket.
A drowning man plucks at a straw.
A drowning man will catch at a straw.
A drowning man will catch at any straw.
A drowning man will cling to a straw.
A drunkard’s purse is a bottle.
A fair face and a foul heart.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
A fat housekeeper makes lean executors.
A father doing good things will have a similar son.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
A feather in the beak of the flier, two under the arm of the goer.
A fifth wheel on a cart is too much.
A fire will burn its surroundings.
A fire's belly is never full.
A fish begins first to smell at the head.
A fish out of water.
A fish rots from the head down.
A fish stinks from the head.
A fish wants to swim.
A fist shouldn't be shown after a quarrel.
A fly in the ointment.
A fool always finds a greater fool to admire him.
A fool always finds one still more foolish to admire him.
A fool always rushes to the fore.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A fool at forty is a fool indeed.
A fool has a fool's luck.
A fool is always a fool.
A fool is ever laughing.
A fool is known by his laugh.
A fool laughs at nothing.
A fool may ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
A fool may give a wise man counsel.
A fool may make money, but it takes a wise man to spend it.
A fool may put something in a wise body's head.
A fool may throw a stone into a well which a hundred wise men cannot pull out.
A fool may throw a stone into a well, which a hundred wise men cannot pull out.
A fool spends his time working.
A fool will not notice the tasty slice, nor will a pig savour the salted fish.
A fool's heart is in his mouth, a wise man's mouth is in his heart.
A fool's money is not long in his pocket.
A fool's tongue runs before his wit.
A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds,.
A foolish friend is like an open enemy.
A forced kindness deserves no thanks.
A foreign land is a land of wolves.
A forest is a poor man's coat.
A forgetful head makes a weary pair of heels.
A foul morn may turn to a fair day.
A fox has a fine life: northerly wind and sunshine.
A fox is not taken twice in the same snare.
A fox should not be of the jury at a goose's trial.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
A friend in need's a friend indeed.
A friend is easier lost than found.
A friend is known in adversity, like gold is known in fire.
A friend is never known till needed.
A friend is recognised in need.
A friend to all is a friend to none.
A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody.
A friend's frown is better than a foe's smile.
A friend’s frown is better than a foe’s smile.
A friend’s frown is better than a fool’s smile.
A friend’s slap has honest intentions, your enemies’ kisses are meant to deceive.
A frog in a well does not know the great ocean.
A fruit-bearing tree bends.
A full purse makes the mouth to speak.
A generous confession disarms slander.
A girl from four, a wife from five, and a mother from six.
A goat must find its food from where it's tied.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
A golden key opens any gate but that of heaven.
A good advice is part of the religion.
A good anvil does not fear the hammer.
A good beginning is half the battle.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
A good beginning makes a good ending; well begun is half done.
A good child vomits, a bad one shits a lot.
A good conscience is a soft pillow; a safe conscience makes a sound sleep.
A good deed is never lost.
A good dog deserves a good bone.
A good example is the best sermon.
A good face is a letter of recommendation.
A good friend is worth many relations.
A good horse is a member of the family.
A good husband makes a good wife.
A good jack makes a good jill.
A good listener needs few words.
A good man manages on his own.
A good marksman may miss.
A good mind possess a kingdom.
A good name is better than riches.
A good name is sooner lost than won.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
A good name keeps its lustre in the dark.
A good promise is better than a poor favour.
A good soup is never cooked in envy's kettle.
A good thing will praise itself.
A good tool does already half of the work.
A good wife is a goodly prize.
A good wife makes a good husband.
A good wife supports her husband, a bad wife is poison to him.
A good word never broke a tooth.
A great dowry is a bed full of brambles.
A great fortune is a great slavery.
A great friend is plato, but a greater friend is truth.
A great ship asks deep waters.
A great talker is a great liar.
A group is composed of a motley.
A guest is a witch in the house.
A guest won't lay a house to ruin, but indolence will.
A guilty conscience is a self-accuser.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A guilty mind betrays itself.
A habit is not as easy to change as a house's yard.
A hard nut to crack.
A hardworking mother raises lazy children.
A healthy wife for the husband, a rich sister for the brother.
A hearty laugh lengthens your life.
A heavy purse makes a light heart.
A hedge between keeps friendship green.
A helper's wages are paid with evil.
A herring does not know who will eat it, nor does a maid know her suitor.
A honey tongue and a heart of gall.
A honey tongue, a heart of gall.
A horse does not thank for the wedding, nor a priest for long holidays.
A horse has four legs, yet it often falls.
A horse may trip.
A horse's milk has more fat.
A house shows its habits.
A house will receive a whore, but even a field will not take a thief.
A house without woman and firelight is like a body without soul or sprite.
A hundred friends is worth more than a hundred roubles.
A hungry belly has no ears.
A hungry devil will even eat a fly.
A hungry man is an angry man.
A hungry man, an angry man.
A jack of all trades is master of none.
A job will find its workman.
A joke never gains an enemy but often loses a friend.
A journey of a thousand miles always begins with a single step.
A kind heart dies wretched.
A king's favour is no inheritance.
A kiss without a beard is like a coffee without cream.
A large man has large trousers.
A lawyer never goes to law himself.
A lazy sheep think its wool heavy.
A lazy sheep thinks its wool heavy.
A lazy tailor uses a long thread.
A lean fee is fit for a lazy clerk.
A leopard can't change his spots.
A liar is not believed when he speaks the truth.
A liar should have a good memory.
A lie begets a lie.
A lie has no legs.
A lie has short legs.
A lie's legs are short.
A light purse is a heavy curse.
A light purse makes a heavy heart.
A line inscribed in water.
A lion at home, a mouse abroad.
A lion on me and an ostrich in war.
A little bird told me.
A little body often harbours a great soul.
A little each day, a lot each week.
A little fire is quickly trodden out.
A little fish is supper for a large fish.
A little keeps alive, a nothing kills.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
A living dog is better than a dead lion.
A loamy field does not bear a dainty plougher.
A long sack is needed when waiting for someone to die.
A lot of donkeys means a lot of hay.
A lot of work when being a maid, even more as a mistress.
A low hedge is easily leaped over.
A maid that is praised should not be taken as a wife.
A man bears a name, a dog gives a name.
A man can die but once.
A man can do no more than he can.
A man does not feel a burden of his own choosing.
A man in debt is caught in a net.
A man is a wife's head as a cat is a mouse's head.
A man is as old as he feels.
A man is known by his horse.
A man is known by his words.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A man keeps as his own what he finds from a fish-trap.
A man must live according to his fortune.
A man of many trades begs his bread on Sunday.
A man of many trades begs his bread on sunday.
A man of words and not of deeds is like a garden full of weeds.
A man pleads anothers's cause with a stick.
A man resembles his work.
A man sleeps very soundly on another man's wound.
A man spends his time working.
A man without shame is always full.
A man's age is long, the world's shore wide.
A man's enemies are they of his own household.
A man's worst enemies are often those of his own house.
A mans worst enemies are often those of his own house.
A man’s house is his castle.
A mare is sold in the courtyard, a maiden is sold in her father's house.
A mare's kick is nothing but a pat.
A married man is a woman's man, a bachelor is a mother's boy.
A messenger has no guilt.
A mighty power in moscow said he who has no horse will travel by foot.
A miserly father begets a squandering son.
A miserly father makes a prodigal son.
A miss is as good as a mile.
A mosquito can make the lion's eye bleed.
A mosquito is noticed in the eyes of another, but not an elephant in the eyes of ones own self.
A mother is a school, preparing her is like preparing a good nation.
A mother's lap is softer than a feather.
A mother's love will bring you up from the bottom of the sea.
A mountain never meets a mountain, but a man meets a man.
A nagging wife works, a hardy wife quarrels.
A near neighbor is better than a distant cousin.
A needle in a haystack.
A new broom sweeps clean.
A new broom sweeps well.
A new broome sweepeth cleane.
A nice wife and a back door oft make a rich man poor.
A nod from a lord is a breakfast for a fool.
A north-westerly wind is the sky's broom.
A northerly wind brings with it fair weather, an easterly wind rain.
A pair shortens the road.
A pauper's death does not carry far, though a rich man's illness all the more.
A pawn will surely bring home your own.
A penny for your thoughts.
A penny minted stays a penny.
A penny saved is a penny gained.
A penny soul never came to twopence.
A perch makes its own decisions: it takes the bait if it wants.
A person slips, and a ladder falls on him.
A picture paints a thousand words.
A picture says more than a thousand words.
A pig grows fat in the mud.
A pig will always be a pig, even if you put a golden saddle on its back.
A pike will even eat a frog after swimming across a large lake, a man will even marry a wicked woman after being without one for a week .
A pike will even eat a frog after swimming across a large lake, a man will even marry a wicked woman after being without one for a week.
A pipe does not feed a family, nor does a kantele support the folk.
A pitcher that goes oft to the well is broken at last.
A place for each thing and each thing in its place.
A poke in the eye for those, who dwell on the past.
A poor bird decorates itself with another bird's feathers.
A poor craftsman blames his tools.
A poor man's pipe does not sound.
A poor man's word is not accepted without cursing.
A poor workman always blames his tools.
A poor workman blames his tools.
A pot of gold is needed to keep the gifts from loneliness.
A pound of care won’t pay an ounce of debt.
A pretty honour, chicken shit on a table.
A pretty pod, but a worm inside.
A problem is solved when it gets tougher.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
A promise is a debt, it's always been said.
A promise is a debt.
A promise will not impoverish a house.
A prophet is not recognized in his own land.
A public hall is never swept.
A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder.
A rabbit aims for the moon.
A rat who gnaws at a cat's tail invites destruction.
A rich man may end up poor and the beggar may rise to be a general.
A road to travel on, a fallen tree to rest on.
A rod does not make a child worse.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A rose between two thorns.
A round peg in a square hole.
A roving dog runs against a stick.
A Russian is a Russian even if cooked in butter.
A safe conscience makes a sound sleep.
A scalded cat fears cold water.
A servant who has two masters, lies to one of them.
A shameless person will be happy with a thorny tree on his backside.
A sheep will eat a hay load even through a bore hole.
A shoemaker must not go beyond his laft.
A short cut is often a wrong cut.
A short hymn is quickly sung.
A shy cat makes a proud mouse.
A silent fool is counted wise.
A single swallow doth not the summer make.
A sinking man will try to catch any rope.
A sleepy master makes his servant a lout.
A slow fire makes sweet meat.
A sluggard's days are the longest.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
A small lie sweetens talk.
A small solotnikke.
A small tuft often tumbles a big load.
A small wound and a poor relative have to be heeded.
A snotnose may grow up to be a man; but he who laughs without cause, never.
A soft answer calms the wrath.
A soft answer turns away wrath.
A sound mind in a sound body.
A spaniel, a woman and a walnut tree; the more they're beaten, the better still they be.
A splinter doesn't land far from the trunk.
A stick has two ends.
A stick is easily found to beat a dog.
A stick is easy found to beat a dog.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A stomach must be served a lifetime.
A stopped clock is right twice a day.
A store is no sore.
A store is no sore; keep a thing seven years and you'll find a use for it.
A storm in a teacup.
A story never loses in the telling.
A stranger is blind even when he sees.
A stranger though he has a bed will return home.
A stranger's bread is bitter to eat.
A stranger's cunt is the prick's sweetmeat.
A stranger's eyes can see the fault.
A swallow makes no summer.
A table without bread is not a table but bread is a table on its own.
A tailor does not choose the cloth.
A tall man has short wits.
A tattler is worse than a thief.
A thief knows a thief and a wolf knows a wolf.
A thief knows a thief as a wolf knows a wolf.
A thief passes for a gentleman when stealing has made him rich.
A thief thinks everyone around him is a thief.
A thing begun is half done.
A thrashing will break no bones.
A threatened blow is seldom given.
A throw without a thrower.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all that sit near him.
A tongue will take you to Kiev.
A tree doesn't fall with one blow.
A tree is climbed from its base.
A tree is known by its fruit.
A tree is never felled on one side alone.
A tree lies where it falls.
A tree starts with a seed.
A tree will break before it reaches heaven.
A trough never searches for a horse, instead the horse searches for the trough.
A true man earns his bread even from a rock.
A truth teller finds the doors closed against him.
A veil brings worries, linen low spirits.
A vessel won't weep for its sides.
A wager is a fool's argument.
A wagtail kicks the ice.
A watched pot never boils.
A wet log doesn't burn.
A whore has no honesty, a thief has no honour.
A whore thanked me, a thief blamed me, but the good person left me in peace.
A widow's love is like reheated potato soup.
A wife isn't a kantele to hang on the wall.
A wife should be sought from afar, a horse nearby.
A wise child will not live long.
A wise enemy as a companion is better than a foolish friend.
A wise man changes his mind sometimes, a fool never.
A wise man changes his mind, a fool never will.
A wise man hears one word and understands two.
A wolf in sheep's clothing.
A wolf will eat its own cousin.
A wolf will have its reasons when its mind is set on mutton.
A wolf will not break a wolf.
A woman is probably at the heart of the quarrel.
A woman's advice is but slender, yet he that refuses it is a madman.
A wonder lasts but nine days.
A wonder lasts nine days.
A word dropped from a song makes it all wrong.
A word for a word.
A word has feet.
A word is enough to the wise.
A word spoken is an arrow let fly.
A word spoken is past recalling.
A word to the wise is enough.
A word to the wise is sufficient.
A workman is known by his chips.
A yawn flies from mouth to mouth as a squirrel flies from tree to tree.
A young man's thoughts are like April weather.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Accusing is proving, when malice and force sit judges.
Acquire new knowledge by "warming up" old knowledge.
Action speaks louder than words.
Actions can boomerang.
Actions have consequences.
Actions speak louder than words.
Actions speaks louder than voice.
Adversity exists to be overcome.
Adversity is a great schoolmaster.
Adversity is the mother of wisdom.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
Advice comes too late when a thing is done.
Advice most needed are the least heeded.
Advice most needed is the least heeded.
Advice sharpens a rusty opinion.
Advice when most needed is least heeded.
After a good cry, your heart is lighter.
After a storm comes a calm.
After a storm comes calm.
After death, a person is holy.
After dinner comes the reckoning.
After dinner rest a while, after supper walk a mile.
After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a mile.
After dinner sleep a while, after supper walk a mile.
After meat, mustard; after death the doctor.
After rain comes fair weather.
After rain comes fair weather; march winds and april showers bring forth may flowers.
After rain comes sunshine.
After the sweet, the leftover are thrown away.
After three years at a village schoolhouse, even a dog can recite a poem.
After us the deluge.
After wit is every body's wit.
Afterwards is no advice.
Age and poverty are ill to bear.
Age breeds aches.
Agues come on horseback, but go away on foot.
Aid yourself and the lord will help you.
Alike children play the best.
All are good lasses, but whence come the bad wives?
All are good maids, but whence come the bad wives?
All are not friends that speak us fair.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
All are not merry that dance lightly.
All are not saints that go to church.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
All asses wag their ears.
All bread is not baked in one oven.
All cats are grey in the dark.
All cats are grey in the night.
All covet, all lose.
All ditches drive to the sea.
All doors open to courtesy.
All eggs should not be put in one basket,.
All eggs should not be put in one basket.
All good comes in threes.
All good things are three.
All good things come in threes.
All hat and no cattle.
All in good time.
All is fish that comes to his net.
All is fish that comes to net.
All is fish that comes to the net.
All is not lost that is in danger.
All is not lost that is in peril.
All is well that ends well.
All lay load on the willing horse.
All men can't be first.
All men can't be masters.
All methods are good except for the bad ones.
All play and no work makes jack a mere toy.
All promises are either broken or kept.
All roads lead to rome.
All roads lead to Rome.
All sugar and honey.
All that glimmers is not gold.
All that glisters is not gold.
All that glitters is not gold.
All that is fair must fade.
All that is known is not told.
All they that take the sword shall perish with the sword.
All things are difficult before they are easy.
All truth must not be told at all times.
All truths are not to be told.
All work and no play make a jack a dull boy.
All work and no play makes jack a dull boy.
All's well that ends well.
Allah is kind, and he likes those who are kind too.
All’s fair in love and war.
All’s fish that comes to his net.
All’s well that ends well.
Almost never killed a fly.
Alone is strong.
Also, every man is the smith of his own fortune.
Also, nobody can serve two masters.
Also: where God has a church the devil will have his chapel.
Although you are throwing it into the river, measure it first.
Always be prepared.
Always bring more than you need.
Always is a sluggard meaning to do.
Always something.
Among the blind the one-eyed man is king.
Among the blind, the one-eyed is king.
Among the blind, the oneeyed man is king.
An accident rarely comes alone.
An accident won't arrive with a bell on its neck.
An age to an age is not a brother.
An animal does not defecate in its nest.
An animal does not defecate in its own nest.
An ape is an ape, a varlet is varlet, though they be clad in silk and scarlet.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
An apple a day turns away illness.
An apple does not fall far from the tree.
An army marches on its stomach.
An ass in a lion's skin.
An ass is but an ass, though laden with gold.
An ass loaded with gold climbs to the top of the castle.
An awl doesn't stay in the sack.
An early calf and a late lamb fare best.
An empty bag will not stand upright.
An empty cart rattles loudly.
An empty drum gives off a loud sound.
An empty hand is no lure for a hawk.
An empty sack cannot stand upright.
An empty vessel gives a greater sound than a full barrel.
An ermine leaves more tracks on a wintry night than a mare with her colts in the summer.
An evil chance seldom comes alone.
An excuse is sometime more ugly than a guilt.
An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
An harmless-appearing confidant can bring down a city.
An honest 'no' is better than an insincere 'yes'.
An honest look covereth many faults.
An honest tale speeds best, being plainly told.
An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
An idle brain is the devil’s workshop.
An ill stake stands longest.
An ill workman quarrels with his tools.
An ill wound is cured, not an ill name.
An illness feeds but does not fatten.
An itch gives you nails.
An oak is not felled at one stroke.
An oath is the thief's God.
An old ape has an old eye.
An old bird is not to be caught with chaff.
An old cat laps as much as a young kitlin.
An old dog barks not in vain.
An old dog doesn't bark lies.
An old dog will learn no tricks.
An old fox is never first to be snared by a fox trap.
An old fox understands a trap.
An old friend is better than two new ones.
An old goat is never the more reverend for his beard.
An old love does not rust.
An old love never grows rusty.
An old man is not to be laughed at.
An old man sometimes has a colt's thoughts.
An old ox makes a strait furrow.
An old thief will one day be caught.
An old wife grows young with a good man, but a maiden grows old with a bad man.
An onion with a friend is a lamb.
An open door may tempt a saint.
An organised group lifts a mountain.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of learning.
An ounce of discretion is worth a pound of wit.
An ounce of lying saves tons of explanations.
An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
An ounce of preventions is better than a pound of cure.
An ox is taken by the horns, and a man by the tongue.
An ox needs its tail when a horsefly takes to flight.
An unfortunate man would be drowned in a teacup.
An unshod mocks a shoe.
An X.
And if you can't avoid him, don't believe him.
And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
Anger and haste hinder good counsel.
Anger begins with madness and ends with regret.
Anger is misery.
Angry cats get scratched skin.
Ants, fighting together, will vanquish the lion.
Any port in a storm is shaken a little.
Any port in a storm.
Appearances are deceitful.
Appearances deceive.
Appetite comes with eating.
Appetite grows as you eat.
April and May the keys of the year.
April and may the keys of the year.
Arrogance over the arrogant is modesty.
As a man lives so shall he die.
As a tree falls so shall it lie.‎.
As drunk as a lord.
As far as the heavenssky from the earth.
As innocent as a babe unborn.
As is the music, thus will be the dance.
As it has been thought, so has it been done.
As like as an apple to an oyster.
As like as two peas.
As long as the gypsy has tongs, he will not burn his fingers.
As long as there is life there is hope.
As old as the hills.
As old people sing, young people tweet.
As one hollows in the woods, so it echoes back.
As one is dressed one will be judged.
As plain as the nose on a man's face.
As plain as two and two make four.
As snug as a bug in a rug.
As soon as he started, he went far.
As sure as eggs is eggs.
As the call, so the echo.
As the fool thinks, so the bell clinks.
As the old birds sing, so do the young ones tweet.
As the old cock crows, so crows the young.
As the old cock crows, so does the young.
As the old crow sings, so sing its fledglings.
As the tree falls, so shall it lie.
As the tree, so the fruit.
As welcome as flowers in may.
As welcome as water in one's shoes.
As well be hanged for a sheep as a lamb.
As well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb.
As ye sow shall ye reap.
As ye sow, so shall ye reap.
As you brew, so must you drink.
As you make your bed so you must lie on it.
As you make your bed, so must you lie on it.
As you make your bed, so will you sleep.
As you make your bed, so you must lie in it.
As you make your bed, so you must lie on it.
As you make your bed, so you must lie upon it.
As you make your bed, so you must lie.
As you shout in the forest you will be answered.
As you shout you will be answered.
As you sow so will you reap.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
As you sow, so you shall reap.
Ask for the knowledge that would be useful to you, would keep you from harm and shame, then elevate you.
Ask much to get little.
Ask no questions and you will be told no lies.
Ask not a saint of his caste; ask of his knowledge.
Asses carry the oats and horses eat them.
Assiduous wins.
At night all cats are grey.
At the ends of the earth.
At the same time to eat, but work go whenever one has time.
Attack is the best defense.
Avoid evil and it will avoid thee.
Avoid the company of a liar.
Avoid the pleasure which will bite tomorrow.
Avoid what may require an apology.
Avoiding mistakes is better than apologizing after.
Away is good but home is best.
Bacchus has drowned more men than neptune.
Bad is the best choice.
Bad news has wings.
Bad shoes on a shoemaker's wife, bad horseshoes on a smithy's horse, bad trousers on a tailor's son, a bad cart at a jointer.
Baghdad is not remote to a lover.
Bare is the back of a brotherless man.
Barking does seldom bite.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Barking follows you home.
Be aware of the idiot, for he is like an old dress.
Be careful of your enemy once and of your friend a thousand times, for a double crossing friend knows more evil.
Be generous to a generous person and you'd win him, be generous to a mean person and he'd rebel on you.
Be just to all, but trust not all.
Be like a beetle, living once on a flower field. don't be like a fly, living once on a mountain of trash.
Be quick to act, and slow to promise.
Be slow to promise and quick to perform.
Be swift to hear, slow to speak.
Be the slave of him whose bread you eat.
Beads about the neck, and the devil in the heart.
Beans come out from where beans are planted.
Beans plead to be cooked, meat asks of the fire.
Beat around the bush.
Beat the iron while it is hot.
Beating the dead is a sin.
Beauty is but skin-deep.
Beauty lies in lover's eyes.
Beauty may open the door, but only virtue enters.
Beauty opens all doors.
Because with wise advice you should do a war.
Because you have drowned others, you were drowned — and in the end, those who drowned you will be drowned.
Before one can say jack robinson.
Before you make a friend eat a bushel of salt with him.
Beggars can't be choosers.
Beggars cannot be choosers.
Beggars can’t be choosers.
Begun is two-thirds done.
Believe not all that you see nor half what you hear.
Bend the willow while it is young.
Besser biegen als brechen.
Best defence is offence.
Best is the enemy of good.
Best to be without oaths.
Best to learn from other people's injury.
Better a bad bush than no shelter.
Better a bitter truth than a sweet lie.
Better a glorious death than a shameful life.
Better a handful of honour than a lap full of shame.
Better a lean jade than an empty halter.
Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
Better a lean settlement than a fat litigation.
Better a little fire to warm us, than a great one to burn us.
Better a poor man's honour than a rich man's money.
Better a ruff in the net than an ide on one's mind.
Better a wife with rye than a lady with barley.
Better alone than in bad company.
Better an egg in peace than an ox in war.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Better an empty purse than borrowed money.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
Better be a tail for the lions than the head of the foxes.
Better be alone than in bad company.
Better be alone than in bad company: and in good company, is better than be alone.
Better be born lucky than rich.
Better be envied than pitied.
Better be single all your life than be a widow for a month.
Better be the head of a dog than the tail of a lion.
Better bend than break.
Better bow than break.
Better breadless than clueless.
Better deny at once than promise long.
Better die standing than live kneeling.
Better early than late.
Better eat and praise God than eat and stay silent.
Better fed than taught.
Better fill a glutton's belly than his eye.
Better five content cows than six hungry.
Better foolish by all than wise by yourself.
Better give a shilling than lend a half-crown.
Better give the slight than take it.
Better go about than fall into the ditch.
Better go to bed supperless than rise in debt.
Better hold with the hound, as run with the hare.
Better is the enemy of good.
Better late than never.
Better lose a jest than a friend.
Better lose your eye rather than your honour.
Better never begun than never ended.
Better one bird in the hand than ten in the forest.
Better one bird on hand than ten birds on a tree.
Better one hazel grouse in the bag, than ten on the branch.
Better one-eyed than stone-blind.
Better safe than sorry.
Better short and fun than long and bad.
Better short of pence than short of sense.
Better something than nothing.
Better squinting than blind.
Better ten steps around than one step in the mire.
Better that the feet slip than the tongue.
Better the devil you know than the devil you don't.
Better the foot slip than the tongue.
Better the grave than a life of want.
Better the last smile than the first laughter.
Better to avoid a dumb friend than a wise enemy.
Better to be a hired hand at a wealthy house than the master of a poor house.
Better to be a spinster than a young whore.
Better to be half hanged than ill wed.
Better to beg than steal.
Better to bow than break.
Better to command another than do it oneself.
Better to dam a ditch than a river.
Better to dam the brook than the creek.
Better to do a little right than a lot wrong.
Better to do well than to say well.
Better to flee than to fence poorly.
Better to free one guilty than convict an innocent.
Better to go dressed in patched clothes than to go naked.
Better to go to sleep with an empty stomach than wake up in debt.
Better to go yourself than give orders to a lazy person.
Better to have a little of your own than another's much.
Better to have and not need than to need and not have.
Better to have too much than to lack.
Better to keep quiet than speak evil.
Better to keep quiet than to speak poorly of someone.
Better to keep quiet than to speak poorly.
Better to plough deep than wide.
Better to preempt, than to be preempted.
Better to rear a pig than to bring up some body else's child.
Better to reign in hell, than serve in heaven.
Better to see a weeping child than a weeping mother.
Better to sell time than to buy it.
Better to spend a day thinking it over than a week working for no purpose at all.
Better to take than to give.
Better unborn than untaught.
Better underdone than overdone.
Better untaught than ill-taught.
Between the cup and the lip a morsel may slip.
Between the devil and the deep blu) sea.
Between the upper and nether millstone.
Between two evils 'tis not worth choosing.
Between two stools my tail goes to ground.
Between two stools one falls to the ground.
Between two stools, you fall to the ground.
Betwixt and between.
Beware of a silent dog and still water.
Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly, they are ravening wolves.
Beware of false prophets.
Beware of greeks bearing gifts.
Beware of he whose goodness you can't ask for and whose evil you can't be protected from.
Beware of the false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, and inwardly are ravening wolves.
Beware the levelheaded when he is angry.
Bias is the plague of the openion.
Big fish are worth of fishing even if you don't catch one.
Big fish eat little fish.
Big in the words, small on the ground.
Billy-goats' horns are all one bone.
Bind the sack before it be full.
Birds fly not into our mouth ready roasted.
Birds known by their feather, humans are known by their friends.
Birds listen to day-words and rats listen to night-words.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Bitten skin is sore, stricken skin is smarting.
Bitter pills may have blessed effects.
Blessed when received, cursed when paying back.
Blind dogs hunting deer.
Blind men can judge no colours.
Blood can never turn into water.
Blood is much thicker than water.
Blood is thicker than water.
Bloom where you are planted.
Boasting costs nothing.
Bolder than a rooster.
Borrowed garments never fit well.
Both a farmer and a willow thicket are hard to do away with.
Boys will be boys.
Bread does not grow by singing, nor work progress by sitting.
Bread is the staff of life.
Bread that needed toiling tastes good.
Breaking is easy, mending hard.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Broken pieces are a good luck sign.
Building upon the sand.
Burial is the way to honor the dead.
Burn not your house to fright away the mice.
Burn not your house to rid it of the mouse.
Burn not your house to rid it off the mouse.
Burnt child shuns the fire.
Business before pleasure.
Busy youth makes easy age.
Butter does not spoil the gruel.
Butter melts where leather burns.
Butter melts where skin burns.
Butter melts where wool burns.
Buy a horse that is praised, take a wife that is railed.
Buy cheaply, pay dearly.
By doing nothing we learn to do ill.
By hook or by crook.
By others' faults wise men correct their own.
By perseverance the snail reached the arc.
By the street of 'by-and-bye' one arrives at the house of 'never'.
By your clothes you are received, by your talk you are wished off.
Calamity is man's true touchstone.
Calm water washes away.
Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots?
Can the ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots?
Can't see the forest for the trees.
Can't see the forest from the trees.
Can't see the wood for the trees.
Cannot see the wood for the trees.
Can’t see the forest for the trees.
Can’t see the wood from the trees.
Care eats into the conscience as rust eats into iron.
Care killed the cat.
Carry coals to newcastle.
Carry one's straw to the hill.
Carthage didn't raise up in only one day.
Cast no dirt into the well that gives you water.
Cast not out the dowed water till you get the clean.
Cast not your pearls before swine.
Cat patting leads to hump raising.
Catch the bear before you sell his skin.
Cats eat what hussies spare.
Cats hide their claws.
Caught lots - got nothing.
Caution is the parent of safety.
Challenge your preconceptions, or they will challenge you.
Charity begins at home.
Chase away the natural and it returns at a gallop.
Cheap meat produces thin broth.
Cheaper than dates in basra.
Cheapest is the dearest.
Cheek brings success.
Chicken today, teather tomorrow.
Chickens are to be counted in the autumn.
Children and fools must not play with edged tools.
Children and fools speak the truth.
Children are poor men's riches.
Children are uncertain comforts but certain cares.
Children beget children to the nuisance of their parents.
Children do as you do, not as you say.
Children will be children.
Children will thrive best on a varied diet.
Children, fools and drunken men tell the truth.
Chip like wood block.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
Choose an author as you choose a friend.
Choose the lesser of two evils.
Christmas and Midsummer match.
Christmas and midsummer match.
Christmas comes but once a year, but when it comes it brings good cheer.
Circle like the cat around hot porridge.
Circumstances alter cases.
Claw me, and I will claw thee.
Cleanliness is half the food.
Cleanliness is next to godliness.
Cleverness and stupidity go together.
Clocks run as they are used, roosters call as they are fed.
Close but no cigar.
Close does not shoot any hares.
Close the door from which the wind blows and relax.
Closer than the carotid artery.
Closer than the tongue to the teeth.
Clothing makes the man.
Cobbler, stick to your last.
Cobblers' children are worst shod.
Coffee is served when it is hot and girls when they are young.
Cold food is soon old food.
Cold forces a man to run alongside his sleigh as it climbs on the sleigh itself.
Cold teaches you to run.
Come rain or shine, no man will melt.
Comes time, comes counsel.
Command your man and do it yourself.
Common fame is often to blame.
Common fame is seldom to blame.
Company in distress makes trouble less.
Comparisons are odious.
Complaining is the weak's weapon.
Complaining to someone other than God is disgraceful.
Conceal not the truth from thy physcian and lawyer.
Conceal not the truth from thy physician and lawyer.
Confession is the first step to repentance.
Confidence begets confidence.
Constant dripping wears away stones.
Constant dripping wears the stone.
Constant dropping wears away the stone.
Constant dropping wears the stone.
Constant sunshine makes a desert.
Consuetudo facit legem.
Consult the wise and do not disobey him.
Continuous improvement is better than being good.
Cookie searches for a wife.
Copper is a poor man's gold, pewter a pauper's silver.
Could, Should and Would are three brothers.
Counsel is no command.
Counting your sheep won't keep the wolf away.
Courage lost, all lost.
Courtesy on one side can never last long.
Creditors have better memories than debtors.
Criticism is something you can avoid by saying nothing, doing nothing and being nothing.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
Cross the stream where it is shallowest.
Cross your bridges when you reach them.
Crows do not pick crow's eyes.
Crows do not pick out crow's eyes.
Crows do not pick out crows' eyes.
Crush the serpent's head with the hand of an enemy.
Curiosity killed a cat.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Curses like chickens come home to roost.
Custom is a second nature.
Custom is second nature.
Custom is the plague of wise men and the idol of fools.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
Damned if you do, damned if you don't.
Dark hair, gentle heart, blond hair, hardened heart.
Darker than the night.
Daughters are the thieves of the household.
Days are countries.
Days grow longer, threads get shorter.
Dead horse receiving medical treatment medically meant for a live horse.
Dead men don't bite.
Dead men tell no tales.
Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
Death arrives uninvited.
Death before dishonour.
Death comes to kings and masters alike.
Death does not blow a horn on arrival.
Death does not visit an empty barn.
Death has not learned to take what is offered to it.
Death has the key to open the miser's chest.
Death is the grand leveller.
Death meets us everywhere.
Death pays all debts.
Death spares neither small nor great.
Death when it comes will have no denial.
Death will wait by your bed if you go to sleep in the evening without food.
Debt is the worst poverty.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
Deeds, not words.
Deep calls to deep.
Delays are dangerous.
Desperate diseases must have desperate cures.
Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
Diamond cut diamond, you have met your match.
Diamonds cut diamonds.
Different countries, different customs.
Different fields different grasshoppers, different pools different fishes.
Different strokes suit different folks.
Diffidence is the right eye of prudence.
Dig a well then close the well, but do not unemploy a worker.
Dig where you stand.
Diligence is the base for intelligence.
Diligence is the mother of good fortune.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
Diligence is the mother of success.
Diligent youth makes easy age.
Dirty laundry must be washed at home.
Discretion is better than valour.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Diseases are the interests of pleasures.
Dissent and you will be known.
Distance is disaffection.
Distance yourself from every dirtiness.
Distress knows no law.
Distrust is the mother of safety.
Divide and conquer.
Divide and rule.
Do all you can and leave the rest to providence.
Do as you may, if you can't do as you could.
Do as you would be done by.
Do good and throw it in sea.
Do good to people and you'll enslave their hearts.
Do not abuse the hospitality of others.
Do not cross the brook for water.
Do not judge others by your own yardstick.
Do not make a hen out of a feather.
Do not play with edged tools.
Do not pull everyone over with a comb.
Do not put everything in the mouth that your eyes see.
Do not think that one enemy is insignificant, or that a thousand friends are too many.
Do not throw pearls before swine.
Do not wake the bear that sleeps.
Do not weep over spilled milk.
Do the duty that lies nearest thee.
Do things of your capacity.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
Do well and have well.
Does a thief steal expecting that he will be caught?
Dog does not eat dog.
Dog doesn't eat dog.
Dog eats dog.
Dogs that put up many hares kill none.
Doing is better than saying.
Don't add fuel to the fire.
Don't add fuel to the flames.
Don't ask for addresses you don't visit.
Don't be all sugar, the world will swallow you; nor be all pepper either, it will spit you out.
Don't be fooled for thinking calm water don't have alligators.
Don't beat a dead horse.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Don't blow your own horn.
Don't boast until you are finished.
Don't bring the devil aboard!
Don't burn the candles at both ends.
Don't buy a cat in the sack.
Don't buy what you need, buy what you can't live without.
Don't call a morsel fat before you've skinned the animal.
Don't celebrate until you have crossed the creek.
Don't change horses in midstream.
Don't change horses in the midstream.
Don't cook before you have a kettle!
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch.
Don't count your chickens before they hatched.
Don't count your chickens before they're hatched.
Don't cross the bridges before you come to them.
Don't cross your bridges until you reach them.
Don't cry over the spilled milk.
Don't delay today's work until tomorrow.
Don't despise a gift because it is small.
Don't do as the priest does but as he commands.
Don't do to another what is hated by you.
Don't drink ahead to the bear's hide.
Don't eat your bread on someone else's table.
Don't find fault with another's child or bride, or you'll soon have a child and bride that others will find fault with.
Don't find fault with the old one before you know the habits of the new one.
Don't flog a dead horse.
Don't force God into a tree, since you won't even get him down by begging.
Don't gabble if you don't lay eggs.
Don't give a sword to a child.
Don't go between the tree and the bark.
Don't halloo until you are out of the wood.
Don't have thy cloak to make when it begins to rain.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
Don't hear one and judge two.
Don't hit a man when he is down.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
Don't judge things and a man at first sight.
Don't jump higher than your own head.
Don't keep a dog and bark yourself.
Don't kick a man when he's down.
Don't kick against the pricks.
Don't kill mosquitoes with a club.
Don't kill the goose that lays the golden eggs.
Don't lay an egg larger than your ass.
Don't leave for tomorrow what you can do today.
Don't leave today's work for tomorrow.
Don't let grass grow on your feet.
Don't let rice fields lay fallow; an inch of soil is an inch of gold.
Don't light a fire for the crows.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Don't look at the jar, but at what's inside it.
Don't look for goose eggs in a magpie's nest, nor a pig's head in a poor man's pot.
Don't look for yesterday.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Don't make a promise you can't keep.
Don't make an elephant out of a mosquito.
Don't make an ox out of a fly.
Don't measure others against yourself.
Don't measure others by your own yardstick.
Don't mock an old dog too long, it'll bite you straight to the bone.
Don't paint the devil on the wall.
Don't pester the dog, it will bite.
Don't plough with another's calf.
Don't postpone till tomorrow what you can do today.
Don't pour oil on fire.
Don't praise it before you have it in your mouth.
Don't praise the day before the sun has set.
Don't put a candle under the basket.
Don't put a fire to the tow.
Don't put all the eggs in the same basket.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Don't put all your eggs in the same basket.
Don't put stones on a burden.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
Don't run before your horse to market.
Don't saw off the branch you're sitting on.
Don't sell the bear skin before you have caught the bear.
Don't sell the bear's skin before you've caught it.
Don't sell the fur until the bear has been shot.
Don't sell the skin till you have caught the bear.
Don't shoot the messenger.
Don't shoot yourself in the foot.
Don't sit in a strange sleigh.
Don't spit where you need to drink.
Don't take revenge on evil with evil.
Don't take what is strange, don't give up what is yours.
Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs.
Don't tell everything you know.
Don't throw out the baby with the bath water.
Don't throw out the child with the bath water.
Don't tie the mouth of a threshing ox.
Don't touch a strange gruel as none of your own groats are in it.
Don't trouble trouble until trouble troubles you.
Don't trust for others, what you can do yourself.
Don't try to cover the whole sky with the palm of your hand.
Don't try to hold onto the wind.
Don't turn down warm bread or a hot sauna.
Don't wait for dead mens shoes.
Don't wash your dirty linen in public.
Don't wash your dirty linen in public; it is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
Don't waste gunpowder on dead crows.
Don't whistle until you are out of the wood.
Don't yawn, or a crow will fly into your mouth.
Don’t buy the pig in the bag.
Don’t complain about lack of wind – learn to sail.
Don’t let the wolf guard the sheep.
Don’t put all the eggs in the same basket.
Don’t put all your eggs in one basket.
Don’t throw pearls before swine.
Dot your I's and cross your t's.
Draw not your bow till your arrow is fixed.
Drink the liquor, not your mind.
Drive the nail that will go.
Drop by drop - a whole lake becomes.
Drop by drop the sea is drained.
Dropped the ball.
Drumming is not the way to catch a hare.
Drunken days have all their tomorrow.
Drunkenness reveals what soberness conceals.
Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad.
Dumb dogs are dangerous.
During the evening the lazy get in a hurry.
Each bird loves to hear himself sing.
Each bird sings according to its own beak.
Each country has its own custom.
Each day brings it own bread.
Each day has enough of its own misery.
Each dog has his day.
Each man must recognize his faults.
Each one has to scratch for himself.
Each person is the forger of his own happiness.
Each smith has his custom.
Eagles do not catch flies.
Eagles don't catch flies.
Early ripe, early rotten.
Early rising benefits you three pence.
Early to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy wealthy and wise.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
Eary to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
Easier hides a wise man his wisdom than a fool his madness.
Easier said than done.
Easier to make a promise than keep one.
Easily caught, easily lost.
East or west - home is best.
East or west ? home is best.
East or west, home is best.
Easy come, easy go.
Easy to cut a broad strap from the skin of another's back.
Easy work, easy bread.
Eat at pleasure, drink with measure.
Eat bread or the bread will eat you.
Eat less to sleep more.
Eat salt and bread, and always do right.
Eat the bones since you ate the meat.
Eat what you are given, you may not have a second chance!
Eat, afterwards bones only remain.
Eats more than a fire.
Eats more than a whale.
Eavesdroppers hear no good of themselves.
Eggs and oaths are soon broken.
Either live with dignity or die generous.
Empty barrels rattle most.
Empty vessels make the greatest sound.
Empty vessels make the most noise.
Empty vessels make the most sound.
Empty vessels makes the most noise.
Empty vessels sound most.
End or mend.
Enough is as good as a feast.
Envy always shooteth at a high mark.
Envy is a weight not placed by its bearer.
Envy is its own torturer.
Envy never rests.
Envy shoots at others and wounds herself.
Envy takes no holiday.
Even a berry is picked off the ground.
Even a black chicken lays white eggs.
Even a blind chicken will find grain.
Even a blind hen can find a grain.
Even a blind hen sometimes finds a grain of corn.
Even a blind pig may occasionally pick up an acorn.
Even a cat covers its ass with its tail.
Even a chicken drinks even though it does not piss.
Even a daughter is a blessing born for the empty hand.
Even a dog covers its ass with its tail.
Even a fool may give a wise man counsel.
Even a fool when he holdeth his peace is counted wise.
Even a frog will stir when stepped on.
Even a king wears worn clothes.
Even a master's dog is a master.
Even a morsel is bread.
Even a net can offer some shade.
Even a penny is money.
Even a pig falls as it's being scratched.
Even a ram relies on its large horns.
Even a roach has gall.
Even a solitary mutter in a well is known after three years.
Even a stone turns green if it does not move for a long time.
Even a thumb's length of a man is more than a woman.
Even a washing tub from a rich house will be married.
Even an axe is not sharpened on one side.
Even birds in a nest quarrel.
Even death is jollier in a group.
Even fish are in pairs in the sea.
Even if there is a quarrel, a neighbour should be visited five times a day.
Even in paradise it is not good to be alone.
Even kings accept gifts.
Even monkeys may fall from trees.
Even reckoning keeps long friends.
Even reckoning makes long friends.
Even spat cabbage is edible.
Even the best can make mistakes.
Even the blind chicken finds grains.
Even the cat looks the king in the eye.
Even the devil licks his own.
Even the fool is thought wise if he remains silent.
Even the other's wheat bread tastes different.
Even the wise are stirred up by greed.
Evening is wiser than morning.
Evening will gather the cattle.
Ever drunk, ever dry.
Every ass loves to hear himself bray.
Every barber knows that.
Every bean has its black.
Every beginning is hard.
Every beginning is weak.
Every bird likes its own nest.
Every bird must hatch its own eggs.
Every bullet has its billet.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every cloud has its silver lining.
Every cock is brave on his own dunghill.
Every cook praises his own broth.
Every country has its customs.
Every dark cloud has a silver lining.
Every day has its own worries.
Every day is not sunday.
Every dog has his day and every man his hour.
Every dog has his day.
Every dog is a lion at home.
Every dog is valiant at his own door.
Every extremity is a fault.
Every extremity is a vice.
Every fool is pleased with his own folly.
Every grain has its bran.
Every hair casts its shadow.
Every heart has his own ache.
Every Jack has his Jill.
Every jack has his jill.
Every little helps.
Every man has a fool in his sleeve.
Every man has his faults.
Every man has his forte.
Every man has his hobby-horse.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
Every man is the architect of his own fortunes.
Every man is the blacksmith of his own happiness.
Every man is the master of his own fortune.
Every man is the smith of his own fortune.
Every man seeks his own profit.
Every man thinks his own geese swans.
Every man to his taste.
Every man to his trade.
Every miller draws water to his own mill.
Every miller is ready to convey water to his own mill.
Every mother thinks her own gosling a swan.
Every nest has one rotten egg.
Every one as they like best.
Every one for himself and God for us all.
Every one's faults are not written in their foreheads.
Every peddler praises his own needles.
Every person is observant to the flaws of others and blind to his own flaws.
Every piece of bread has a crust.
Every power is subject to an other power.
Every rope has two ends, and tomorrow is yet to come.
Every rose has its thorns.
Every shopkeeper praises his own merchandise.
Every sore has its salve.
Every tide has its ebb.
Every time you patch it, the wind will tear it back again.
Every tree has its own roots.
Every tub must stand on its own bottom.
Every white has its black, and every sweet its sour.
Every why has a wherefore.
Every why has its wherefore.
Every why hath its wherefore.
Everybody knows best, where his own shoe pinches him.
Everybody to whom much is given, much is expected.
Everybody wants to live long, but nobody wants to grow old.
Everybody's business is nobody's business.
Everyone ages, but pray to God that you never become a cripple.
Everyone blows into his own spoon.
Everyone has his own worries.
Everyone is beautiful when young, but many are bad when old.
Everyone is closest to himself.
Everyone is creator of his own fortune.
Everyone knows how to steal, but few can hide the boot.
Everyone knows the monkey, but the monkey knows no one.
Everyone knows when and where they were born, but no one knows the time or place they will die.
Everyone lives in their own way.
Everyone should sweep before his own door.
Everyone takes care for his own and God for everything .
Everyone takes care for his own and God for everything.
Everyone talks into his own sack.
Everyone thinks his own fart smells sweet.
Everyone wants to be lords, but no one wants to carry the sack.
Everyone will find salvation in his own faith.
Everyone will make sure their sack is filled.
Everyone's shirt is closer to his own skin.
Everyone's the blacksmith of their own fate.
Everything comes to him who waits.
Everything goes when in dire straits: even ham and eggs.
Everything has a beginning.
Everything has an end and a pudding hath two.
Everything has its time.
Everything in its season.
Everything in moderation.
Everything is good in its season.
Everything is known in the smith's forge, in the mill and in the rectory.
Everything is needed in a house: the stub of a knife, a shabby axe, a whore, a mutt.
Everything is possible, you just need to want it!
Everything is worth its price.
Everything is worth what its purchaser will pay for it.
Evil cannot defeat evil.
Evil comes even without predicting.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
Evil gun powder doesn't go away easily.
Evil in people does not go away when they get buried.
Evil is ancient and man mortal.
Evil makes one frightened.
Evil seldom goes alone.
Evil shall by evil be expelled.
Evil will get its pay.
Evil will get its share.
Example is better than precept.
Exception strenghtens the rule.
Expect the unexpected.
Experience is the mother of wisdom.
Experience keeps a dear school, but fools learn in no other.
Experience keeps no school, she teaches her pupils singly.
Experiencesexperimenting has no end and one always gains from them.
Experimenting is the great science.
Extremes meet.
Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.
Fact is stranger than fiction.
Facts are stubborn things.
Fain would the cat fish eat, but she's loath her feet to wet.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Fair and softly goes far in a way.
Fair weather follows the thunderstorm.
Fair without, false within.
Fair without, foul within.
Fair words break no bones.
Faith can move mountains.
Faith is half the battle.
Faith will move mountains.
Fake it till you make it.
Faker than a mirage.
Fall down seven times, get up eight.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
Falseness lasts an hour, and truth lasts till the end of time.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Far from eye, far from heart.
Far from the eye - far from the heart.
Farther than pleiades.
Faster than an arrow.
Faster than death.
Faster than eye blink.
Faster than lightning.
Faster than the wind.
Faster than thoughts.
Fasting comes after feasting.
Faults are thick where love is thin.
Fear has large eyes.
Fear the man of one book.
Feast today and fast tomorrow.
Feed a guest with words until the soup is ready.
Feed with a spoon and dig the eye out with the handle.
Festivities will not last forever and halls are not cleaned every day.
Few words are best.
Fields have eyes and woods have ears.
Fight fire with fire.
Fight fire with fire; like cures like.
Finally an end to this stony bread, but when will this spring day end.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Fine words are not enough for the empty stomach, it needs bread.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
Fine words butters no parsnips.
Fire and water are good servants, but bad masters.
Fire is not quenched with fire.
First a man takes a swig, then the swig takes the man.
First blow your own nose and only then another's.
First catch your hare.
First come, first served.
First deserve and then desire.
First leap, and then say "hop"!
First learn it yourself before teaching others.
First the maid longs to be married, then she longs to be back at home.
First think and then speak.
First think, then speak.
First to the mill will first grind.
Fish and company stink in three days.
Fish begins to stink at the head.
Fixing what you have is better than waiting to get what you don't have.
Follow glory and it will flee, flee glory and it will follow thee.
Follow the river and you'll get to the sea.
Follows more than a shadow.
Food is prepared swiftly in the hands of the good mistress.
Fool's haste is no speed.
Fools and madmen speak the truth.
Fools grow without watering.
Fools may sometimes speak to the purpose.
Fools never know when they are well.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
For every seed a corresponding fruit.
For nine weeks keep a plank for her corpse under the back of a woman who has given birth.
For one that is missing there's no spoiling a wedding.
For smart people, signs can replace words.
For the blind, all his money is pennies.
For the love of the game.
For the sake of a single rose one must endure the pain of a hundred thorns.
For what thou canst do thyself, rely not on another.
Forbearance is no acquittance.
Forbidden fruit always tastes the best.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
Forbidden fruit is sweetest.
Forbidden road is often heavily worn.
Forced beauty won't do.
Forced to work but not to eat.
Forewarned is forearmed.
Forewarned, forearmed.
Forget other faults remembering your own.
Forget other faults remembering your own; forgive and forget.
Forgetting is the plague of knowledge.
Forgive and forget.
Fortune and glass soon break.
Fortune and unfortune are neighbours.
Fortune disdains the lazy.
Fortune favors the bold.
Fortune favors the brave.
Fortune favours the bold.
Fortune favours the brave.
Fortune favours the foolish.
Fortune is easily found, but hard to be kept.
Fortune is never bought.
Fortune is never taken.
Fortune never comes twice.
Four eyes see better than two.
Four eyes see more than two.
Foxes when they cannot reach the grapes say they are not ripe.
Freedom or death.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
Friendlier than a dog.
Friends are thieves of time.
Friends for a meal are easy to find, friends until end of life are difficult to find.
Friends may meet, but mountains never greet.
Friends will never survive an empty plate.
From bad to worse.
From children, drunkards and madmen you get to hear the truth.
From little spark may burst a mighty flame.
From nothing nothing can come.
From nothing, nothing can come.
From nothing, nothing will be.
From pillar to post.
From the mouth into God's ear, and from God's ear into the purse.
From your mouth to God's ears.
Frost wants clothes.
Full stomach, contented heart.
Gentility without ability is worse than plain beggary.
Get a man drunk if you wish to find out his true nature.
Get a name to rise early, and you may lie all day.
Get together like brother, and keep each other in check like strangers.
Get together like brothers, and work together like strangers.
Gifts break a rock.
Gifts from enemies are dangerous.
Give a finger, he will take whole arm.
Give a fool rope enough, and he will hang himself.
Give an inch and they'll take a mile.
Give credit where credit is due.
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice.
Give him an inch and he will take a yard.
Give him an inch and he'll take a mile.
Give him an inch and he'll take a yard.
Give him an inch and he'll take an ell.
Give him an inch he will take a yard.
Give me some good luck and throw me in the sea.
Give neither salt nor counsel till you are asked for it.
Give never the wolf the wether to keep.
Give one an inch, and he will take a mile.
Give the devil his due.
Give to the emperor what is the emperor's and to God what is God's.
Give your friend your blood and money.
Given promised gift.
Giving to oneself is better than receiving.
Giving will make no one poor.
Gluttony kills more men than the sword.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
Go to bed with the lamb and rise with the lark.
Go with the flow.
God above, king afar.
God didn't create haste, but did command us to hurry.
God does not burden man with a load greater than he can carry.
God does not finish his work; if he did, the elephant would have a bushy tail.
God does not support the lazy.
God gave teeth, God will provide the bread.
God gave us two ears and one mouth.
God gives time but doesn't ignore.
God gives to them that give to others.
God gives us hands, but does not build bridges for us.
God gives, God takes.
God has made us all.
God helps the rich, but the poor live anyway.
God helps them that help themselves.
God helps those who help themselves.
God himself is the help of the helpless.
God is on the side of the strongest batallions.
God is where he was.
God is with those who persevere.
God is with those who persevere; persevere and never fear.
God listens to those who have faith.
God sends a curst cow short horns.
God who gives the wound gives the salve.
God's mill grinds slowly yet surely.
God's mills grind slowly, but for sure.
God, help me be a wife so that I could yell at the girls.
God, take me wherever you will as long as it's not my own home.
Gold blinds many, love blinds all.
Gold buys you silver as daughters do son-in-laws.
Gold is proved in the fire, and acceptable men in the furnace of humiliation.
Gold must be hammered, and the child must be beaten.
Gold will change a king's mind.
Good begets more good, but evil always leads to evil.
Good blood always shows itself.
Good cheap is dear.
Good clothes open all doors.
Good counsel does no harm.
Good deeds never rot.
Good deeds remain, all things else perish.
Good health is a crown on the heads of the healthy that only the ill can see ali ibn abi talib.
Good health is above wealth.
Good health is more to be desired than wealth.
Good laws have sprung from bad customs.
Good manners is the greatest friend.
Good masters make good servants.
Good medicine always tastes bitter.
Good medicine is bitter to the mouth.
Good riding at two anchors, men have told, for if the one fails, the other may hold.
Good sense costs money and cannot be bought with money.
Good shall overcome evil.
Good swimmers are often drowned.
Good wine needs no bush.
Good wine needs no label.
Good words and no deeds.
Good words without deeds are rushes and reeds.
Gossiping and lying go hand in hand.
Gossiping and lying go together.
Grab the bull by its horns.
Grand it has to be even if you live a day less.
Grasp all, lose all.
Grass grows not upon the highway, nor in the marketplace.
Gray hairs are honorable.
Great barkers are no biters.
Great boast, small roast.
Great braggers little doers.
Great cry and little wool.
Great griefs are mute.
Great minds agree.
Great minds think alike.
Great spenders are bad lenders.
Great talkers are great liars.
Great talkers are little doers.
Greedy folk have long arms.
Grey hairs are honorable.
Gruel and peas are cooked in the autumn, watery gruel in the spring.
Guests and fish stink on the third day.
Habit cures habit.
Haggle well and pay all.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
Halls don't grace men, it's men that grace halls.
Hamlet without the prince of denmark.
Hands are loans.
Handsome is as handsome does.
Handsome is that handsome does.
Happiness comes happiness leaves.
Happiness takes no account of time.
Happy is he that is happy in his children.
Happy Tom Crump ne'er sees his own Hump.
Hard for the stomach, easy on the shoulders.
Hard words break no bones.
Hares may pull dead lions by the beard.
Harm watch is harm catch.
Harm watch, harm catch.
Has a better voice than a pigeon.
Haste makes waste.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
Hasty judgment leads to repentance.
Hasty work - shame for the craftsman.
Hate not at the first harm.
Hatred is blind, as well as love.
Have a care of a silent dog and still water.
Have faith and God shall provide.
Have patience and you'll get what you want.
Hawks will not pick hawks' eyes.
Hawks will not pick out hawk's eyes.
He beat me and cried, and went before me to complain.
He begins to die that quits his desires.
He cannot speak well that cannot hold his tongue.
He carries fire in one hand and water in the other.
He carries water in a sieve.
He complains wrongfully at the sea that suffer shipwreck twice.
He dances well to whom fortune pipes.
He deserves not the sweet, that will not taste of the sour.
He does not kill the beast who only looks at it.
He doesn't shit where he squats.
He gives twice who gives in a trice.
He gives twice who gives quickly.
He gives twice, who gives in a trice.
He goes long barefoot that waits for dead man's shoes.
He had need rise early who would please everybody.
He has been to rome but has not seen the pope.
He is a fair weather friend.
He is a fool that forgets himself.
He is a good friend that speaks well of us behind our backs.
He is a man who keeps his word.
He is afraid of his own shadow.
He is an evil cook that cannot lick his own fingers.
He is happy that thinks himself so.
He is lifeless that is faultless.
He is more obedient to him than his own right hand.
He is not fit to command others that cannot command himself.
He is not laughed at that laughs at himself first.
He is not poor that has little, but he that desires much.
He is rich who is satisfied.
He is so pig-headed.
He is taking water to the danube.
He jests at scars that never felt a wound.
He knows best what good is that has endured evil.
He knows how many beans make five.
He knows much who knows how to hold his tongue.
He lacks not comfort who enjoys a contended mind.
He laughs best who laughs last.
He lives long that lives well.
He must have a lot of butter in order to stop a mans mouth.
He must needs swim that is held up by the chin.
He performs severe penance outwardly, but he is a great rogue.
He pours water into the sea.
He promises like a merchant but pays like a man of war.
He says the moon is made of cheese.
He sets the fox to keep his geese.
He should have a long spoon that sups with the devil.
He smells best that smells of nothing.
He sold his vinyard and bought a squeezer.
He that builds a house by the side of the highway, either too high or too low.
He that can have patience can have what he wants.
He that comes first to the hill may sit where he will.
He that comes now and then, shall have a fat hen.
He that commits a fault thinks everyone speaks of it.
He that does lend, loses his friend.
He that does not work shall not eat.
He that does you an I!I turn will never forgive you.
He that endures, is not overcome.
He that fears every bush must never go a-birding.
He that fears you present wiil hate you absent.
He that fights and runs away, may live to fight another day.
He that flees and runs away might live to see another day.
He that goes a borrowing, goes a sorrowing.
He that goes barefoot must not plant thorns.
He that goes softly, goes safely.
He that has a full purse never wanted a friend.
He that has a great nose thinks everybody is speaking of it.
He that has an ill name is half hanged.
He that has he head needs no hat.
He that has no children knows not what love is.
He that has no money needs no purse.
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
He that hath many irons in the fire, some will cool.
He that hath one hog, makes him fat; and he that hath one son, makes him a fool.
He that is born to be hanged shall never be drowned.
He that is full of himself is very empty.
He that is ill to himself will be good to nobody.
He that is warm thinks all so.
He that knows least commonly presumes most.
He that knows nothing doubts nothing.
He that leave a certainty and sticks to chance, when fools pipe he may dance.
He that leaves a certanity and sticks to chance, when fools pipe he may dance.
He that leaves the highway to cut short, commonly goes about.
He that lies down with dogs must rise up with fleas.
He that lies down with dogs, must rise up with fleas.
He that lives on hope dances without music.
He that lives on hope shall die fasting.
He that lives on hope will die fasting.
He that lives with cripples learns to limp.
He that looks not before finds himself behind.
He that loses anything and gets wisdom by it gains by the loss.
He that loves his children corrects them well.
He that makes himself an ass must not take it ill if men ride him.
He that mischief hatches, mischief catches.
He that never climbed never fell.
He that never climbed, never fell.
He that once deceives is ever suspected.
He that promises too much means nothing.
He that reckons without his host, may reckon again.
He that respects not is not respected.
He that runs and flees away, might live to see another day.
He that seeks trouble never misses.
He that sends mouths, sends meat.
He that serves everybody is paid by nobody.
He that serves God for money will serve the devil for better wages.
He that sows thistles shall reap thorns.
He that spares the bad injures the good.
He that steal a pin, will steal a better thing.
He that steals an egg will steal an ox.
He that stumbles and falls not, mends his pace.
He that swells in prosperity will shrink in adversity.
He that takes the devil into the boat must carry him over the sound.
He that talks much errs much.
He that talks much lies much.
He that touched pitch shall be defiled.
He that will eat the kernel must crack the nut.
He that will not be counseled cannot be helped.
He that will not be counselled, cannot be helped.
He that will not be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock.
He that will not when he may, when he will he may have nay.
He that will not when he may, when he will he shall have nay.
He that will not work, shall not eat.
He that will steal an egg will steal an ox.
He that will thrive, must rise at five.
He that would eat the fruit must climb the tree.
He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
He that would pick the rose must sometimes be scarred with the thorns.
He thought that roasted larks would have fallen into his mouth.
He was in rome and did not see the pope.
He who acts friendly does not seek your affection, but a specific thing from you.
He who always knows best never learns.
He who bids for much, often loses all.
He who buys what he does not need may have to sell what he needs.
He who can not dance but blames the floor as uneven.
He who cannot beat the ass, beats the saddle.
He who comes uncalled sits unserved.
He who conceals his grief dies of it.
He who consecrates each Sabbath beholds all hungers .
He who consecrates each sabbath beholds all hungers.
He who dares wins.
He who demands well, should fulfill his demands well.
He who destroys a thing should repair it.
He who dies by laughing is buried with a fart.
He who digs a pit for others, often falls into it himself.
He who digs a pit for others, will fall in it himself.
He who does all the work will always be hungry.
He who does not advance goes backwards.
He who does not feed his cat will feed rats.
He who does not give from his plenty does not give from his storehouse.
He who does not go forward goes backward.
He who does not help others has not been in trouble himself.
He who does not know the falcon would grill it.
He who does not know you is not informed of you.
He who does not look after his property will have many thieves.
He who does not steal and lie a bit is not really wise at all.
He who does not want to listen with his ears will feel it in his back.
He who does not want to work, that cannot eat either.
He who doesn't want to hear, shouldn't say.
He who earns much spends much.
He who easily believes is soon duped.
He who enters the game must endure it.
He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
He who follows the dung beetle ends up in a dunghill.
He who gets a foothold gets a seat for his ass.
He who gives away his only one will be left with nothing.
He who gives his only one God will reward twice.
He who gives must have a measure since he who takes does not.
He who has a large mouth must also have a broad back.
He who has been to the mill has flour on his cap.
He who has fingers of iron, the devil shall flee.
He who has is given, he who does not have is taken from.
He who has lost his good name has lost everything.
He who has money is powerful.
He who has much will be asked even more.
He who has no friend has God.
He who has the money has the right.
He who has the strength has the right.
He who heeds his parents kneads a whole troughful of bread for himself.
He who helps the poor lends to the lord.
He who hesitates is lost.
He who holds the fire is never thanked.
He who humbles himself is elevated.
He who is a master in this world is a master in hell: the slaves keep the kettle fire burning.
He who is asleep cannot commit a sin.
He who is born a fool is never cured.
He who is born cannot avoid death.
He who is cruel to his horse is severe with his wife.
He who is fast in youth is swift in old age.
He who is feared by many, fears many.
He who is most stubborn will win.
He who is not with me is against me.
He who is on horseback will not spare his own father alive.
He who is silent admits.
He who is unable to reap, carries fifty-eight sickles at his side.
He who is useless for himself is useless for others.
He who knows does not ask.
He who laughs last, laughs best.
He who laughs last, laughs longest.
He who likes borrowing dislikes paying.
He who lives shall see.
He who looks upwards thinks downwards.
He who makes no mistakes makes nothing.
He who makes no mistakes, makes nothing.
He who perservers shall win.
He who pleased everybody died before he was born.
He who pulls out a knife, by knife shall die.
He who puts his hand to the plough should not look behind.
He who runs after two hares catches neither.
He who saddles early rides late.
He who saves, has.
He who says what he likes, shall hear what he doesn't like.
He who serves God has a good master.
He who sleeps does not sin.
He who sows love will reap love.
He who sows thickly reaps plenty.
He who sows wind reaps storms.
He who spits towards the sky gets it back into his own face.
He who starts well is in the middle of the work.
He who stays quiet consents.
He who strikes has his reasons, but he who strikes back has none.
He who sups with the devil needs a long spoon.
He who takes care of his cat takes care of his horse.
He who takes his time to choose gets the worst one.
He who takes needs a longer arm than he who gives.
He who talks a lot knows little.
He who thinks a lot seldom acts.
He who thinks he is standing tall should be wary of lapsing into sin.
He who waits for something good never waits too long.
He who wants also gets.
He who was caught was under the influence of saturn in the eight sign; and he who escaped, was under the influence of saturn in the ninth.
He who whispers lies.
He who works always receives something, he who doesn't gets nothing.
He who would catch fish must not mind getting wet.
He who would eat the nut must first crack the shell.
He who would search for pearls must dive below.
He will never set the thames on fire.
He works best who knows his trade.
He would fall on his back and break his nose.
He would have the looks and the figure if he had good health.
He would have the looks and the figure if he had good manners.
He wrongfully blames the sea who suffers shipwreck twice.
He's not truly wise if he shows no cunning.
He's the rock, the oak, not to be wind-shaken.
Head cook and bottle-washer.
Health is above wealth.
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
Health is quietly keeping silent.
Health is wealth.
Heard the question wrong, answered wrong.
Hearing does not compare to sight.
Hearing is never as good as seeing.
Heaven helps the helpless.
Heaven helps those who help themselves.
Heavier than a mountain.
Hedges have ears.
Hell is paved with promises.
Help and you will be helped.
Help another and get yourself in trouble!
Help yourself and God will help you also.
Help yourself, and God will help you.
Helping yourself is the best way to help yourself.
Here's nothing, hold it well!
Herring is never spoilt with salt.
Higher than the heavens.
Hindsight is 20-20.
His fault is besides him.
His money burns a hole in his pocket.
His name will live forever.
His own desire leads every man.
History repeats itself.
Hit the iron while it's hot.
Hold a woman by her word or a burbot by its tail, and empty-handed you will always be.
Honesty is the best policy.
Honesty lasts the longest.
Honey is not for the ass's mouth.
Honey is sweet, but the bee stings.
Honey is sweet, but the bees sting.
Honor blossoms on the grave.
Honor whom should be honored.
Honour and profit lie not in one sack.
Honour the tree that gives you shelter.
Honour will not fill your stomach.
Honours change manners.
Honours to the deserving.
Hope is a good breakfast, but a bad supper.
Hope is the last thing to leave a human being.
Hope is the poor man's bread.
Hope that the poor benefit, the ill get better.
Hospitality asks for equal treatment in return.
How can the louse cough if it has no lungs.
How did the swine's head get into the beggar's sack?
How many ifs fill a bushel?
How should one know another man's heart.
How you are fed is how you hoe.
How you live is how you will die.
How you live, that's also how you are talked about.
However many fruits the akatti tree yields, they are only fit to throw away.
However smart a squirrel jumps, in the end they fall back down.
Human thinks and God plans.
Hunger breaks stone walls.
Hunger drives the pig home.
Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood.
Hunger finds no fault with cookery.
Hunger is an infidel.
Hunger is the best flavouring.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Hunger teaches you to be a witch.
Hungry bellies have no ears.
Hurry slowly.
I can tell a sweet birch from the other trees and my mother-in-law from the other village women.
I cured my self but I amputated my nose in the process.
I do not recognize his achievements as almost anything.
I have put these ugly skins on, but at least they cover my body.
I know the place where I was born, the place where I grew up, but not the place where I will die.
I myself am a man, though my family members are wolves.
I need to sleep on it.
I never promised you a bed of roses.
I saw people tending to the one who has money.
I take pride in my accomplishments and not in those of my ancestors.
I taught him archery everyday, and when he got good at it he throw an arrow at me.
I today, you tomorrow.
I wish you a readier meat than a running hare.
I'm already drowning so why should I fear getting wet.
I'm here today, where tomorrow.
I'm up to it and to every great thing.
Idle folks lack no excuses.
Idle hands are the devils playthings.
Idle people have the least leisure.
Idleness is the mother of all evil.
Idleness rusts the mind.
If a blind leads a blind man both shall fall into a ditch.
If a blind one leads another, they both fall together.
If a donkey brays at you, don't bray at him.
If a hungry louse finds flesh, it will bite through to the bone.
If a job is worth doing, it is worth doing well.
If a job is worth doing, it's worth doing well.
If a man cheats me once, shame on him; if he cheats me twice, shame on me.
If a man once fall, all will tread on him.
If a stone stays in one place, it becomes overgrown with grass.
If a wind blows, ride it.
If an ass brays at you, don't bray at him.
If an ass goes abroad, an ass will return.
If an eagle is no good, cut its feathers off.
If at first you don’t succeed, try, try again.
If finland's katherine.
If Finland's Katherine.
If fools went not to market, bad wares would not be sold.
If fortune favours, beware of being exalted.
If fortune thunders, beware of being overwhelmed.
If he eats a lot, he also works hard.
If he gives a duck, he expects a goose.
If his spoon is made smaller, he will be manageable;.
If ifs and ands were pots and pans, then we would need no tinkers.
If ifs and ans were pots and pans..
If ifs and buts were candy and nuts.
If it belongs to the elder sister, it is rice, if it belongs to the younger sister, it is only bran.
If it should rain porridge, he would want his dish.
If it tastes good, it is expensive.
If life gives you lemons, make lemonade.
If meat is expensive then patience is cheap.
If my aunt had been a man she'd have been my uncle.
If my aunt had been a man, she'd have been my uncle.
If near ink, you will be black, if near light, you will shine.
If no agreement, then separation.
If one has said 'a' one has to say 'b'.
If one of the two adversaries came to you with a pumped eye, don't judge for him until you see the other, for maybe he got both of his eyes pumped.
If one piece of advice fails, then another one will surely help.
If one sows pumpkins with the devil, they will bash onto one's head.
If only I knew then, what I do now.
If patience is bitter then its result is sweet.
If separated by a long distance, there will be long-lived friendship, but if they are near each other, there will be perfect hatred.
If something increased more than it should, it will turn againest itself.
If speech is silvern, silence is golden.
If talk is silver then silence is gold.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
If the blind leads the blind, they both fall into the ditch.
If the cairn were not built, the magpie wouldn't have perched.
If the cat is away, the mice play.
If the fish are not eating, the worms are spared.
If the fog is rising, it will rain; if the fog is falling, the weather will be fine.
If the head is dumb, the body suffers.
If the heart is empty, the rest will soon abandon you too.
If the mountain will not come to mohammed, mohammed must go to the mountain.
If the people wanted life, destiny better respond.
If the pig goes, then the trough remains and many a muncher.
If the raven were a judge, who would ride a horse.
If the sea is rich, the land is poor.
If the shell is not good, the nut inside is also poor.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
If the sky falls, we shall catch larks.
If the water is available you need not clean up with sand.
If there are two women together, it means they're speaking ill of a third woman.
If there is a question, there is also an answer.
If there is a will, there is a way.
If there is enough bread, no man will go hungry.
If there is liquor, there are friends.
If there is no hardship when young, then as an old man there will be no support.
If there is no petitioner, there is no judge.
If there is no wind the trees do not quiver.
If there is room in the heart, there is room for the behind.
If there were no clouds, we should not enjoy the sun.
If there's no choice but advice, ask for the decisiveness of an advisor or the advice of a decisive person.
If things were to be done twice all would be wise.
If two families keep a boat, it leaks.
If two people live at a distance, their hatred will turn into friendship.
If two thieves quarreled, what was stolen emerges.
If we can't as we would, we must do as we can.
If we go forward we die; if we go backward we die; better go forward and die.
If wishes were fishes, there'd be no room in the river for water.
If wishes were horses, beggars might ride.
If wishes were horses, we'd all be eating steak.
If words don't help, fists will speak.
If work were a sweetmeat, the masters would touch it.
If you agree to carry the calf, they'll make you carry the cow.
If you are good at one thing, you are also good at another.
If you are over fastidious you will fare worse.
If you are to hit then make it painful, because you'll get one blame eitherways.
If you are worried by the rain you can always plunge into the sea.
If you buy cheaply you pay dearly.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
If you buy quality you only cry once.
If you buy quality, you only cry once.
If you can't be content with even a little, then not even a lot is enough.
If you can't reward then you should thank.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
If you cannot have the best, make the best of what you have.
If you cut a tree, cut at the base and not at the top.
If you dance you must pay the fiddler.
If you do charity, your house will be always rich.
If you do good, good will be done to you.
If you do no wrong, you need not be afraid.
If you do not enter the tiger's cave, you will not catch its cub.
If you do the right things, you don't have to worry.
If you don't have a mind yourself, you can't give to others.
If you don't help yourself, even God cannot help you.
If you embrace your masters, feed their dogs.
If you follow a crow long enough you light on carrion.
If you give someone a finger he wants the whole hand.
If you got it, flaunt it.
If you had been calm, you wouldn't have seen a miracle.
If you have a good man, cover one of his eyes; if you have a bad man, cover both.
If you have an opinion, be determined, the only faulty opinion is to hesitate.
If you have brought the devil on your boat, you must also row him to shore.
If you have much, you will need much.
If you have no enemies it is a sign that fortune has forgotten you.
If you have no shame then do whatever you want.
If you hear a person talking good about things that aren't in you, don't be sure that he wouldn't also say bad things about things that aren't in you.
If you laugh before breakfast you'll cry before supper.
If you lose one, there are a thousand more to choose from.
If you mentioned the wolf you better prepare the stick.
If you mentioned the wolf you better watch out.
If you oppress who is below you then you won't be safe from the punishment of who is above you.
If you pay peanuta you get monkeys.
If you play with fire you will get burned.
If you pledge, don't hedge.
If you put a fool to pray, he'll break his own forehead.
If you put in the work to sharpen the steel, it will eventually turn into needles.
If you put one finger in the shit, be prepared to put in your whole hand.
If you reach for the highest of ideals, you shouldn't settle for less than the stars.
If you run after two hares, you will catch neither.
If you save a rogue from the gallows, he will rob you that same night.
If you see the fangs of the lions, don't think the lion is smiling.
If you sell the cow, you sell her milk too.
If you speak the word it shall own you, and if you don't you shall own it.
If you take care of the soil, the soil will take care of you.
If you throw mud enough, some of it will stick.
If you try to please all you will please none.
If you turn yourself into a doormat, everyone will walk over you.
If you want a thing done right, do it yourself.
If you want a thing well done, do it yourself.
If you want something done right, do it yourself.
If you want something done, do it yourself.
If you want to live a life that is long, don't die.
If you want to ride, then feed the horse.
If you want to touch the head, first touch the foot.
If you wanted obedience command with what is possible.
If you wishask, wishask for more.
If you're a liar, you better have a good memory.
If you're a wind then I'm a hurricane.
If you're going to eat pork, eat it till your mouth drips.
If your greetings had not preceded your words, your bones before your flesh would I have eaten.
Ignorance is bliss.
Ignorance is the death of the living.
Ignorance is the worst acquaintance.
Ill gotten goods never prosper.
Ill gotten, ill spent.
Ill laughter is the best laughter.
Ill news come apace.
Ill weeds grow apace.
Ill words corrupt good manners.
Ill-gotten gains never prosper.
Ill-gotten goods seldom prosper.
Ill-gotten, ill-spent.
In a country according to its customs.
In a place where there is will, there is a road.
In accepting the inevitable, one finds peace.
In at one ear and out at the other.
In doing good one does it to oneself; in doing evil one does it to oneself.
In every beginning think of the end.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
In haste there is regret and in taking time there is peacesafety.
In its own nest even the crow will pick the vulture's eyes.
In muddy water one catches fish easily.
In perils, you know your friends.
In sight one is like silk; out of sight one is like a wolf.
In the calmest waters swim the ugliest fish.
In the country of the blind one-eyed man is a king.
In the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
In the dark all are equally pretty.
In the dark all cows are equally grey.
In the desert sand is cheap.
In the emperor's presence to abide is just like sleeping by a tiger's side.
In the Emperor's presence to abide is just like sleeping by a tiger's side.
In the end things will mend.
In the evening one may praise the day.
In the house of the hanged man, they mention not the rope.
In the kingdom of the blind the one-eyed man is a king.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
In the realm of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
In this weather a good man would not force his dog to go out, but a bad man will even his wife.
In wine there is truth.
In with the new and out with the old.
Infinite diversity in infinite combination.
Ingratitude is the world's reward.
Injury makes you wise.
Ink on paper.
Innocent blood does not tremble.
Insight is more valuable than gold.
Iron fist in a velvet glove.
Iron hand in a velvet glove.
Iron must be forged when it is hot.
Iron will crack before a man breaks his word.
It concerns you, too, when your neighbor's wall is on fire.
It does not become the sparrow to mix in the dance of the cranes.
It doesn't take what is passed to it or grab what is offered .
It doesn't take what is passed to it or grab what is offered.
It is a fool who follows, not who commands.
It is a good doctor who follows his own advice.
It is a good horse that never stumbles.
It is a lie what is spoken quietly.
It is a long lane that has no turning.
It is a nuisance for the louses if the cottage burns down.
It is a poor mouse that has only one hole.
It is a silly fish, that is caught twice with the same bait.
It is a sin if the poor show off, the rich steal and the old commit adultery.
It is a third of the work to begin.
It is an ill bird that fouls her own nest.
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
It is an ill wind that blows nobody good.
It is as good to be in the dark as without light.
It is bad with the bad but worse without the bad.
It is best to bite into the sour apple.
It is better to be a good man's whore than a bad one's wife.
It is better to be alone than to be in bad company.
It is better to die with honor than to live with shame.
It is better to have broken gaelic than dead gaelic.
It is better to laugh than to cry.
It is by the head that the cow gives the milk.
It is dark one inch ahead of you.
It is darkest before dawn.
It is difficult for one man to act a play.
It is easiest to learn from another man's damage.
It is easiest to learn from another mans damage.
It is easy to be prudent in hindsight.
It is easy to cut broad strips off other people's leather.
It is easy to find fault with another's work, but hard to improve it.
It is easy to get something small from something large, but harder to get something large from something small.
It is easy to go down a hill, but hard to go up one.
It is easy to swim if another hoids up your chin.
It is easy to swim if another hoids up your head.
It is enough to make a cat laugh.
It is even a help when the fly shits in the sea.
It is fairer to listen to the string that broke than to never strain a bow.
It is given what is offered.
It is good fishing in muddy waters.
It is good fishing in streamy water.
It is good fishing in troubled waters.
It is good to fish in streamy water.
It is good to have friends both in heaven and hell.
It is hard to catch birds with an empty hand.
It is hard to get butter out of a dog's throat.
It is hard to live in rome and strive against the pope.
It is more blissful to give than to receive.
It is never too late to learn.
It is never too late.
It is no use crying over spilt milk.
It is not necessary to teach a fish to swim.
It is not one person's fault if two people quarrel.
It is not the cow that shouts the loudest that gives the most milk.
It is not the hen that cackles the most that lay the most eggs.
It is not the hen who cackles the loudest who hatches the most eggs.
It is not what you do, but the way that you do it.
It is not what you say, it is the way you say it.
It is not wise to open old wounds.
It is only the dead who don't return.
It is soon apparent which trees will bear fruit.
It is the early bird that gets the worm.
It is the first step that costs.
It is the hunt that matters and not the quarry, and the sauce that matters and not the meat.
It is the milk of the goat foaming and warm, that gave the strength to the past generations of people.
It is the mountains that do not move to help one another; but one man surely comes to the help of another.
It is the wise man who knows when to give in.
It is the wolf that teaches its young to howl.
It is to be bent in time, that which bent shall be.
It is useless, once the water is gone, to hurry.
It must start raining since the pig is carrying a straw in his mouth.
It never rains but it pours.
It remains unknown if it has not been seen.
It takes a man to know a man.
It takes all sorts to make a world.
It takes one to know one.
It takes two to tango.
It will all be the same a hundred years hence.
It will be all the same a thousand years hence.
It will be like it will be.
It will go as it came.
It won't bite who threatens.
It won't strike who growls.
It would blow the horns off a goat.
It's a hardship that will go away.
It's a long lane that has no turning.
It's a sad house where the hen crows louder than the cock.
It's always darkest before the dawn.
It's an old swedish law that he who has no horse will travel by foot.
It's as broad as it's long.
It's best for a child to live with good parents.
It's better to have a good name than to be rich.
It's better to have one than be waiting for two.
It's by the head that the cow gives the milk.
It's easier to find fault with others than oneself.
It's easy if you can.
It's easy to be wise after the event.
It's good to be drunk: no poverty nor pain.
It's ill meddling between the bark and the rind.
It's like bringing coal to newcastle.
It's no use crying over spilled milk.
It's no use preaching to a hungry man.
It's no use pumping a dry well.
It's not the mirror's fault if your nose is crooked.
It's not what you do it's the way that you do it.
It's one thing to flourish and another to fight.
It's possible since it's regular.
It's the exception that proves the rule.
It's the quiet ones you gotta watch.
It's the thought that counts.
It's too handsome if the poor have two eyes.
It's too late to go to the mill when the husks are in the sack.
It's too late to make a cover for the well, since the child has already drowned.
It's very hard to shave an egg.
It’s a small world.
Jack of all trades and a master of none.
Jack of all trades begs bread on sundays.
Jack of all trades, master of none.
Jackdaw in peacock's feathers.
Jest with an ass and he will flap you in the face with his tail.
Joan is as good as Milady in the dark.
Joy shared, joy doubled.
Joy shared, joy doubled: sorrow shared, sorrow halved.
Judge not a man and things at first sight.
Judge not of men and things at first sight.
Judge not, that ye be not judged.
Jump out of the frying pan into the fire.
Jung gewohnt, alt getan.
Just as one calls into the forest, so it echoes back.
Just as the twig is bent, the tree is inclined.
Justice is what wins.
Keep a thing seven years and you will find a use for it.
Keep a thing seven years and you'll find a use for it.
Keep everything in your mind, but forget your dream sack.
Keep your mouth shut and your ears open.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Keep your tongue in the middle of your mouth.
Keeping a secret is a commitment.
Kein Vogel fliegt so hoch, er kommt wieder auf die Erde.
Kill two birds with one stone.
Kindness leads one to be a whore, spite keeps one a virgin.
Knavery may serve a turn but honesty never fails.
Know thyself, give another man his due.
Know your friend then leave him.
Knowledge is power.
Knows no dance, claims the stage is tilted.
Lack of work brings a thousand diseases.
Laid card lies.
Lange Krankheit, sicher Tod.
Lange krankheit, sicher tod.
Large fish spawn in deep waters.
Large words will not stick in the throat.
Last night there were five pairs of oxen and now there isn't even the tip of calf.
Last night there were five pairs of oxen and now there isn't even the tip of horn.
Last, but not least.
Laugh, and the world laughs with you weep, and you weep alone.
Laughable are the ways of women, but never those of men.
Laughing for no reason is rude.
Laughing helps you live longer.
Laughs at others today, and tomorrow others will laugh at you.
Laughs he who laughs last.
Laws catch flies but let hornets go free.
Laws catch flies, but let hornets go free.
Laying pearls before swine.
Laziness leads many people astray.
Lazy people are always busy.
Lead by example.
Learn to creep before you leap.
Learn to say before you sing.
Learn to walk before you can run.
Learn wisdom by the follies of others.
Learning begets skill.
Learning is the eye of the mind.
Learning without playing you lose your youth.
Least said, soonest mended.
Leave a jest when it pleases you best.
Leave evil, it will leave you.
Leave the last word unsaid.
Leave well enough alone.
Leaves without figs.
Less talk and more action!
Lesser of two evils.
Let bygones be bygones.
Let every man praise the bridge he goes over.
Let fortune be taken, the rope for the complaint's neck.
Let him go to sea who has not learned to know his God elsewhere.
Let him that is cold blow the coals.
Let money come and go, but don't let it build a nest.
Let not the cobbler go beyond his last.
Let not your tongue cut your throat.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Let the buyer have a thousand eyes for the seller wants only one.
Let the buyer have thousand eyes for the seller wants only one.
Let the food silence the mouth.
Let us look for the woman.
Let well enough alone.
Let's sit down and let haste go by.
Let's take from where there is and put where it is needed.
Liars need good memories.
Liars should have a good memory.
Lice eat you and the world hates you.
Licks in the front and bites from behind.
Lies are the plague of speech.
Lies have short legs.
Life brings pearls, death graves.
Life is a battle.
Life is but a span.
Life is but one and God is but one.
Life is made of two days.
Life is not a bed of roses.
Life is not all beer and skittles.
Life is not all cakes and ale.
Life is short and shitty like a child's shirt.
Life is the faithful's prison and the nonbelievr's paradise.
Life is to have a belief and fight for it.
Life was never meant to be easy.
Life without a friend is death without a witness.
Life without friends means death without neighbors.
Life's no walk in the park.
Life's not all beer and skittles.
Life's not all wine and roses.
Life-time, live, life-time, all the same you will die as stupid.
Light burdens become heavy.
Like a cat on hot bricks.
Like a needle in a haystack.
Like begets like.
Like cures like.
Like draws to like.
Like father like son.
Like father, like son.
Like guest, like food.
Like knife, like wife.
Like making you a gift of a thousand acres of land in a sandy river.
Like master like farm dog.
Like master like farm hand.
Like master like farm slave.
Like master, like man.
Like money, like stuff.
Like mother, like daughter.
Like parents, like children.
Like priest, like people.
Like stepping into the water without knowing its depth.
Like teacher, like pupil.
Like tree, like offshoots.
Like will to like.
Linen is gold, wool mud.
Liquor does what beer doesn't even know.
Liquor revives a man, but beer gives him strength.
Listen much and speak little.
Listen to the wind upon the hill till the waters abate.
Little chips light great fires.
Little is better than nothing.
Little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
Little knows the fat sow what the lean one means.
Little pigeons can carry great messages.
Little pitchers have big ears.
Little pitchers have great ears.
Little pitchers have long ears.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Little thieves are hanged, but great ones escape.
Little things amuse little minds.
Little things make a big difference.
Live according to your means.
Live and learn.
Live and let live.
Live as if you were to die tomorrow, work as if you were to live to a hundred.
Live by the sword, die by the sword.
Live not to eat, but eat to live.
Loaned out trousers don't get better.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
Long days without work, long nights without sleep.
Long goes the pitcher to the well before it gets broken at last.
Long hair and short wit.
Long hair, short wits, a woman's head.
Long legs are of no use except in drawing the birch bark.
Longer than a separation day.
Longer than the winter's night.
Look at a boy's head and a maid's feet.
Look before you leap, but having leapt never look back.
Look before you leap, for snakes among sweet flowers do creep.
Look before you leap.
Look for last winter's snow and yesterday.
Look like the innocent flower, but be the serpent under it.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
Look not a horse in the mouth.
Look through your eyes as if through a golden pearl, but don't touch.
Lookers-on see more than players.
Looks are deceptive.
Loose lips sink ships.
Lord without post and pig without snout.
Lose nothing for asking.
Lose nothing for want of asking.
Lost time is never found again.
Love and a cough cannot be hid.
Love and a cough.
Love and punishment live together.
Love and then what you will, do.
Love cannot be forced.
Love goes through the stomach.
Love in a cottage.
Love is a risky game.
Love is a slippery game.
Love is blind, as well as hatred.
Love is blind.
Love is mad.
Love is not a potato but a whole turnip.
Love makes all equal.
Love me when I least deserve it, because that is when I need it the most.
Love me, love my dog.
Love takes half of a wise man's mind, but it takes everything from a madman.
Love will creep where it may not go.
Love, smoke and cough are hard to hide.
Lovers can even live on a bare rock.
Loving your country is pious.
Luck in the sky and brains in the ground.
Make a shoe that fits your foot.
Make a virtue out of necessity.
Make do with what you have.
Make haste slowly.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Make long stitches and leave the thread slack, so we get to the next house quicker.
Make or mar.
Making peace is treasured.
Man does not melt like salt or drench like paper.
Man isn't old, the devil in hell is old.
Man more often repents what he did say than he did not.
Man plans and God laughs.
Man proposes but God disposes.
Man proposes, God disposes.
Man was made to work and the bird was made to fly.
Manna does not fall from the sky.
Manure is a farmer's gold.
Many a fine dish has nothing on it.
Many a good cow has a bad calf.
Many a good father has but a bad son.
Many a little makes a mickle.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Many a true words are spoken in jest.
Many are called but few are chosen.
Many do kiss the hands they wish to see cut off.
Many hands make light work.
Many have become poor for lack of money.
Many have died in their homes.
Many have entered the Underworld, but none have returned.
Many have entered the underworld, but none have returned.
Many kiss the hand they wish cut off.
Many kiss the hand they wish to cut off.
Many men, many minds.
Many speak of robin hood who never shot his bow.
Many strokes cut down great oaks.
Many talk, but few do.
Many words hurt more than swords.
Many words will not fill a bushel.
Marriage halves our griefs, doubles our joys, and quadruples our expenses.
Marriage is no horse trade.
Marriages are made in heaven.
Marry and grow tame.
Martin.
May your father die, not your mother.
Maybe rain or maybe snow, maybe yes or maybe no.
Measure for measure.
Measure thrice and cut once.
Measure thrice, cut once.
Measure twice, cut but once.
Meeting death is better than escaping from it.
Men are given two joyous days: one when he gains a wife and the other when he is rid of her.
Men are judged by their strength of their opinion and with hopesdreams money awaits.
Men are like fish.
Men are like fish; the great ones devour the small.
Men cut large thongs of other men's leather.
Men have lice, dogs have fleas.
Men leap over where the hedge is lower.
Men may meet but mountains never.
Men may not be a single day without employment.
Men talk only to conceal the mind.
Men trip not on mountains, they stumble over stones.
Men try to hide their sorrow.
Mend or end.
Mercy is better than a hard punishment.
Might goes before right.
Might is always right.
Might is not always right.
Might is right.
Might makes right.
Mild days in January will be paid for in March.
Mild days in january will be paid for in march.
Mild physician – putrid wounds.
Mild physician, putrid wound.
Mind your own business.
Mischiefs come by the pound but go away by ounces.
Misery loves company.
Misery on entering this world, misery on casting away your life.
Misery will teach you to pray.
Misfortune comes on horseback and goes away on foot.
Misfortunes come by forties.
Misfortunes never come alone.
Misfortunes never come singly.
Misfortunes tell us what fortune is.
Missing the forest because of the trees.
Mistaking red for ripe.
Moderation in spending is half of all living.
Money begets money.
Money buys a man's silence.
Money changes minds, itch fools the reason.
Money commands all.
Money does not grow on trees.
Money does not smell.
Money doesn't fall from trees.
Money doesn't stink.
Money gets you anything, except for love and appetite.
Money has no eyes.
Money has no smell.
Money helps up to the gates of hell.
Money is a cure.
Money is a good servant but a bad master.
Money is drawn to money.
Money is roundish so that it can move.
Money is the rich man's God, sleep the poor man's feast.
Money is there to be spent.
Money often unmakes the men who make it.
Money opens all doors except those to heaven.
Money opens all gates but heaven's.
Money spent on the brain is never spent in vain.
Money talks. if you have money, can you buy even fairies.
Money will do anything.
More arrogant than a peacock.
More awake than a wolf.
More corrupt then mites.
More desperate than a drowning person.
More enduring than a donkey.
More fair than scales.
More famous than a fire on a mountain.
More fearful than an ostrich.
More flirty than imru' alqais.
More folk drown in a glass of liquor than in the sea.
More generous than hatim.
More greedy than asha'ab.
More haste, less speed.
More hideous than the disappearance of good fortune.
More hideous than words with no action.
More jinxed than albassoos.
More lost than the moon in the winter.
More secure than the nose of a lion.
More silent than the earth.
More skillful than a silk worm.
More speed less haste.
More treacherous than a wolf.
More vicious than a snake.
More vulnerable than a spider's web.
Morning hour has gold in its mouth.
Morning is as precious as gold.
Morning is wiser than the evening.
Mother's rod is woollen, a stranger's rod is bloody.
Movement is a blessing.
Moving three times is the same as one fire.
Mow when wet, rake when dry.
Much ado about nothing.
Much coin, much care.
Much wants more.
Much will have more.
Much would have more.
Muck and money go together.
Murder will out.
My clock strikes once only.
My feet took me to my death.
My house is my castle.
Name not a rope in his house that hanged himself.
Name not a rope in his house that was hanged.
Name not a rope in his house who hanged himself.
Narrow is the fisherman's table.
Nature abhors a vacuum.
Nature gave us two ears and one mouth.
Nature is beyond all teaching.
Nature passes nurture.
Necessity has no law.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Necessity knows no law.
Neck or nothing.
Need bargains while the man looks on.
Need excavates the trick.
Need makes the old wife trot.
Needs must go when the devil drives.
Needs must when the devil drives.
Neither fish nor flesh, nor good red herring.
Neither fish nor flesh.
Neither here nor there.
Neither rhyme nor reason.
Nemo potest digne dominis servire duobus.
Never argue against one who is greater than you.
Never cackle till your egg is laid.
Never cast dirt into that fountain of which you have sometime drunk.
Never do things by halves.
Never fry a fish till it's caught.
Never is a long time.
Never judge a book by its cover; never judge by appearances.
Never judge by appearances.
Never judge by appearances; judge not a man and things at first sight.
Never justify yourself.
Never offer to teach fish to swim.
Never overlook a small wound or a poor family member, both can grow in size.
Never part company with a road or an old friend.
Never put off till tomorrow what can be done today.
Never put off till tomorrow what can be done today. or there's no time like the present.
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today.
Never put off until tomorrow what you can do today.
Never quit certainty for hope.
Never seemed a prison fair or mistress foul.
Never too much of a good thing.
Never too old to learn.
Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
Never try to prove what nobody doubts.
Never write what you dare not sign.
New brooms sweep clean.
New brooms sweep the best.
New day, better luck.
New lords, new laws.
New meat begets new appetite.
News flies fast.
News spreads like wildfire.
Nightingales will not sing in a cage.
Nine can help one, but one cannot help nine.
Nine do not wait for one.
Nine people, ten ideas.
No bad thing that doesn't bring something good.
No bird flies without wings.
No book was so bad, but some good might be got out of it.
No bridge is built of words or a fence of bean stalks.
No careful hen trusts a fox.
No church will be built where the dog died.
No cloud without a silver lining.
No day ends without misfortune.
No day passes by without some grief.
No dreaming cat catches mice.
No enemies is a sign that fortune has forgotten you.
No field grows by looking, only by ploughing.
No field stands for treachery.
No fire without smoke.
No flying from fate.
No fried sparrows will fly into your mouth.
No garden without its weeds.
No great loss without some small gain.
No heralds in the grave.
No herb will cure love.
No horse will die of its sweat nor woman of her tears.
No illness makes hair prettier.
No joy without alloy.
No joy without sorrow.
No living man all things can.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
No man is indispensable.
No man is wise at all times.
No man lives twice.
No man loves his fetters, be they made of gold.
No man was ever ruined by being cursed, and no one ever prospered because he was blessed.
No men is an island.
No money will come without work.
No need of words, trust deeds.
No need to carry out two good deeds: promise and give.
No news is good news.
No one becomes rich by eating.
No one believes the words of a liar.
No one can be an expected to be an expert at something before they have tried it.
No one can be sold to death by force.
No one can be the judge in his own case.
No one can serve two masters.
No one gets rich quickly if he is honest.
No one has gone ahead of misfortune.
No one here lives to be the pillar that bears the world.
No one is a blacksmith when they are born.
No one is a prophet in one's own home city.
No one is a prophet in one's own homeland.
No one is indispensable to others.
No one is indispensable.
No one is shamed by work.
No one knows the weight of another's burden.
No one knows the weight of anothes burden.
No one knows what the morrow will bring.
No one knows where the shoe pinches, but he who wears it.
No one that has suffered shipwreck for the second time can complain about the sea.
No one's mouth is made of birch bark.
No pain, no gain.
No pain, no gain. nothing ventured, nothing gained.
No pains no gains.
No pains, no gains.
No party without shattering.
No pride like that of an enriched beggar.
No rose without a thorn.
No rose without thorns.
No smoke without fire.
No song, no supper.
No stolen property is blessed.
No stolen property is lucky.
No sweet without some sweat.
No sweet without sweat.
No thief is rich, nor wise man healthy.
No thief is rich, nor wise man rich.
No trees grow to the sky.
No trousers are so bad that they weren't worth a skirt.
No true man speaks unless asked.
No two days are alike.
No two trees are alike, even in a forest.
No tyrant rules long.
No use crying over spilt milk.
No use striving against Fate.
No use striving against fate.
No water gets on top of fat.
No wisdom like silence.
Nobody can live longer in peace than his neighbour pleaseth.
Nobody can serve two masters.
Nobody has two stomachs to fill.
Nobody is a prophet in his own country.
None but a dog eats his fill.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
None is so deaf as the one who will not hear.
None so blind as those who won't see.
None so deaf as those that won't hear.
None so deaf as those who will not hear.
Not a hair is broken without the will of God.
Not able to take revenge on the donkey, take it out on the saddle.
Not all clouds give rain.
Not all is gold that glitters.
Not all shiny things are golden.
Not all that glitters is gold.
Not all that shines is gold, nor all that glows is silver.
Not all trees end up being masts.
Not all truths are proper to be told.
Not all who wear trousers are men.
Not all your days are at an end.
Not even a bird flies before it has wings.
Not even Hercules could contend against two.
Not even the poor are denied great thoughts.
Not every day is a festival when one can eat sweetmeat.
Not every day is there a wedding, nor are all days revelries.
Not everyone's good is the same.
Not everything that is praised is good and not everything that is blamed is bad.
Not having enough is like not having anything.
Not seeing the forest for the trees.
Not to give chase to those who leave, nor refuse those who come.
Not worth it to go further than the sea for fish.
Nothing beats an elk's muzzle, a bear's paw or a burbot's liver.
Nothing can be gained from the dead.
Nothing comes out of the sack but what was in it.
Nothing for nothing.
Nothing is compulsory except death, and not even that as long as you breathe.
Nothing is impossible to a willing heart.
Nothing is new under the sun.
Nothing is new.
Nothing is so good that it can't be made better.
Nothing must be done hastily but killing of fleas.
Nothing so bad, as not to be good for something.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Nothing venture, nothing have.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
O, father, o mother! drink of the water that runs in the river.
Oaks may fall when reeds stand the storm.
Oat's words: If I'm sown into rich soil, I will dress him with cloth.
Oat's words: if I'm sown into rich soil, I will dress him with cloth.
Oats for catching and reins for riding.
Of saving comes having.
Of soup and love the first is the best.
Of three roads take the middle.
Of two evils choose the least.
Of what fills the heart speaks the mouth.
Offering medicine to the old is like fixing an old boot.
Often beautiful nuts have an ugly core.
Often has a shoemaker's wife had bad shoes.
Oil does not extinguish the fire.
Old age is a sickness in itself.
Old age, boy, is no joy.
Old birds are not caught with chaff.
Old brooms sweep better.
Old debt are always new.
Old friends and old wine are best.
Old habits die hard.
Old is oldest.
Old love never rusts.
Old men are twice children.
Old people know much; they were taught by necessity.
Older and wiser.
Older than you by a day, more knowledgeable than you by a year.
On shank's mare.
On the other side grass is greener.
Once a drunkard always a drunkard.
Once a knave, ever a knave.
Once a person cheats in an exam, forever people will distrust him.
Once a thief always a thief.
Once bitten twice shy.
Once bitten, twice shy.
Once is as good as never.
Once is no custom.
Once is no rule.
Once the wolf has eaten the grey horse, let it have the cart as well.
Once you got angry, take off your shoes too.
One a man, the other a lad.
One beats the bush, and another catches the bird.
One bird in hand is better than ten on the roof.
One bird in hand is worth two in the bush.
One bird in the hand is better than two on the tree.
One blind man leads the crowd.
One can cause the illness which he wanted to cure.
One can work well with many and eat well with few.
One can't make war with rose water.
One cannot both eat one's cookie and keep it.
One cannot force a dog to hunt.
One cannot watch the thief of one's own house.
One cheek is bloody, the other greasy.
One chick keeps a hen busy.
One cow for the flies and one woman for the doorstep.
One crane's voice is better than the chirping of a thousand sparrows.
One crow will not peck out another crow's eyes.
One day closer to death and wife-taking.
One day on the road and food for a week.
One does bad, nine heads carry.
One does not become great by claiming greatness.
One does not change a habit with a shake of the tail.
One does not know another's illness.
One does not know another's trouble.
One does not wash away blood with blood.
One drop of poison infects the whole tun of wine.
One dullard asks more than five wise men have time to answer.
One enemy is too many, a hundred friends are not enough.
One evil rises out of another.
One eyewitness is worth ten earwitnesses.
One finger gashed - all the fingers are covered with blood.
One fire drives out another.
One fool makes many.
One for all, all for one.
One frog spoilt all the water.
One glass, not the better and not the worse my body or my soul of it. two glasses, the better my body of it and not the worse my soul of it. three glasses, the worse my soul of it and not the better my body of it.
One glass, not the better of it and not the worse of it. two glasses, the better of it and not the worse of it. three glasses, the worse of it and not the better of it.
One God and no more, but friends a good store.
One good turn asks another.
One good turn deserves another.
One grain suffices to test a whole pot of boiled rice.
One hand washes another and both wash the face.
One hand washes the other, both will be clean.
One hand washes the other.
One hand will not clasp.
One has to screw the aunt since there is no other bride.
One ill word asks another.
One is not so soon healed as hurt.
One knows a man by his trade even if it is drinking beer.
One law for the rich, and another for the poor.
One learns as long as one lives.
One learns from mistakes.
One learns to understand another's misfortune through one's own.
One lie makes many.
One link broken, the whole chain is broken.
One look is worth a thousand words.
One man against a man, two against a bear.
One man can summon the future.
One man's illness is another man's health.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
One man, no man.
One more for the road.
One must cut one's coat according to one's cloth.
One must step back to take a good leap.
One must take matters into one's own hands.
One nail drives another.
One nail drives out another.
One pebble doesn't make a floor.
One scabby sheep will mar a whole flock.
One sheep follows another.
One should choose the lesser of two evils.
One should eat or one dies.
One should feel shame before good, fear before evil.
One should not add oil to the fire.
One should not bow before stupidity merely because it is old.
One should not change horses in the middle of the stream.
One should not have a wolf as a shepherd.
One should not offer cinnamon rolls to baker's children.
One shouldn't make a bull out of a fly.
One sleeps like one makes his bed.
One sows, another reaps.
One stone cannot grind.
One swallow does not a summer make.
One swallow does not herald the coming of spring.
One swallow does not make a summer.
One swallow doesn't make a spring.
One swallow makes no summer.
One sword keeps another in the sheath.
One time after the denial.
One time is no time.
One time, no time — two times, a habit.
One today is worth ten tomorrows.
One today is worth two tomorrow.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
One which is sweet and the other is bitter.
One who gets up early is doubly lucky.
One who is sitting still does not fill in for the one who keeps moving.
One year's joy for the married, two years' mourning for the dead.
One's own help is the best help.
One's reach exceeds one's grasp.
Only a fool takes delight in the other's misfortune.
Only dead fish follow the stream.
Only he who has sat behind the stove can search for someone behind it.
Only nixon can go to china.
Only sweden has swedish gooseberries.
Only time will tell.
Only what one has eaten is one's own.
Only your grand child is dearer to you than your child.
Open not your door when the devil knocks.
Opinion comes before the bravery of the braves.
Opinions differ.
Opportunity knocks only once.
Opportunity makes the thief.
Oppose your affection to find rationality.
Our parents planted so we ate, and we plant for our children to eat.
Out of sight out of mind.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Out of the frying pan and into the fire.
Out of the frying pan and into the fire.'.
Out of the frying pan into the fire.
Out of the frying-pan into the fire.
Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings come great truth.
Own hearth is gold worth.
Packed like herrings.
Pain is felt by its owner.
Paper is forbearing.
Paradise is under mothers' feet.
Paradise without people is not worth living in.
Patience - in time the grass becomes milk.
Patience is a plaster for all sores.
Patience is a virtue.
Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet.
Patience is mother of success.
Patience is the art of hoping.
Patience is the best remedy.
Peace builds, quarrelling shatters.
Peace in the land and a priest in every parish.
Penny-wise and pound-foolish.
Penny-wise, pound foolish.
Penny-wise, pound-foolish.
People are like fish; the big ones devour the small.
People throw stones only at trees with fruit on them.
People who come from hell are not afraid of hot ashes.
People who live in glass houses shouldn’t throw stones.
Perfect is the enemy of good.
Persevere and never fear.
Physician, heal thyself!
Physician, heal yourself!
Pick the lesser of the two evils.
Planning is half of living.
Plant each day and you will eat.
Play, women and wine undo men laughing.
Playing with water, wet. playing with fire, burned.
Playing without learning you lose your future.
Pleasure has a sting in its tail.
Plenty is no plague.
Plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you will have corn to sell and keep.
Poets are born, but orators are trained.
Polite words will be well received.
Politeness costs little but yields much.
Politeness costs little, but yields much.
Politeness costs nothing, but yields much.
Politicians are like crocodiles — big jaws but no ears.
Poor memory is better than bad memories.
Poured water won't stay in the well.
Poverity is no sin.
Poverty and love are bad to hide.
Poverty does not lose its virtue; envy is its own torturer.
Poverty is no crime.
Poverty is no sin.
Poverty is not a shame, but the being ashamed of it is.
Poverty is the reward of idleness.
Poverty on an old man's back is a heavy burden.
Practice gives skill.
Practice makes perfect.
Practise what you preach.
Praise is not pudding.
Praise other lands to the others, live on your own land.
Praise the day at dawn.
Praise the mountains, but love plains.
Praise the sea, but keep on land.
Pray to God war is heard but not seen!
Preachers say do as I say and not as I do.
Preachers say: do as I say, not as I do.
Precepts teach, but examples move.
Prepare for the dog of evil, a dog as strong.
Prettiness makes no pottage.
Prevention is better than cure.
Pride comes before fall.
Pride comes before the fall.
Pride goes before a fall.
Pride goes before the fall.
Probity is the only coin that has value everywhere.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
Proffer'd service stinks.
Proffered service stinks.
Promise is debt.
Promise little, but do much.
Prosperity makes friends, and adversity tries them.
Protect a child from fire and water until he's seven years old.
Protect your brother's privacy for what he knows of you.
Prudence is the footprint of wisdom.
Punctuality is the virtue of princes.
Punishment is lame but it comes.
Punishment is lame, but it comes.
Purer than a tear.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death.
Put new stuff into the gut when the old one dies.
Put not your hand between the bark and the tree.
Put your head between these heads and shout cut our heads off.
Quarrelsome dogs come limping home.
Qui cherche le danger, y p?ira.
Qui cherche le danger, y périra.
Quick at meal quick work.
Quick at meal, quick at work.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
Quick wealth makes the man suspicious.
Rain at seven, fine at eleven.
Rain in spring is as precious as oil.
Rarely does a crane land in a spruce, even then it breaks its leg.
Rarely does a pig see the sky.
Rarely is a bird shot for its feathers.
Rather an honest 'no' than an insincere 'yes'.
Rather look over a gallon of fleas than two lovers.
Rather one bird in the hand, than ten in the woods.
Rather see than hear.
Rather today a sparrow than a bustard tomorrow.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Raw meat fattens, raw fish makes lean.
Read like the devil reads the bible.
Reading ten thousand books is less than journeying ten thousand miles.
Reality surpasses the poem.
Reason does not come before age.
Reason does not come before years.
Reason has no age.
Reckless youth makes rueful age.
Redo, do right.
Relations or no relations, my turnips are three hundred cash per picul.
Relatives are dear when they live afar and seldom call in.
Remind the youngster of his next life.
Repentance is good, but innocence is better.
Repetition is the mother of knowledge.
Respect yourself, or no one else will respect you.
Revenge is sweet.
Ride the horse with oats, not with a whip.
Rima came back to her old habits.
Ripe fruit falls of itself.
Rivers begin from small streams.
Robbers get plundered by thieves.
Robbing Peter to pay Paul.
Robbing peter to pay paul.
Roll my log and I will roll yours.
Rome was not built in a day.
Rome was not built in one day.
Rudeness knows no bounds of shame.
Rye bread does not leave one hungry, and coarse clothes do not leave one naked.
Safer than the pigeons of mekkah.
Said to congratulate newlyweds.
Salt doesn't injure the heart, nor does tar turn the mind.
Salt water and absence wash away love.
Save the share of the one who is sleeping, eat the share of the one gadding about.
Say no ill about the year till it be past.
Saying and doing are two things.
Scandal will rub out like dirt when it is dry.
Schadenfreude is the only true joy.
Score twice before you cut once.
Scornful dogs will eat dirty puddings.
Scratch my back and I'll scratch yours.
Second thoughts are best.
Second thoughts are the best.
See all, say nothing, hold yourself content.
Seeing a client is in itself a trade.
Seeing is believing.
Seek education even if it takes you to china.
Seek education from the cradle to the grave.
Seek to get.
Seigneur sans dame, ce n'est que vent.
Self done is soon done.
Self done is well done.
Self is a bad counsellor.
Self is the best farmhand.
Self-made is well made.
Self-praise comes aye stinking ben.
Self-praise is no praise.
Self-praise is no recommendation.
Self-praise stinks.
Sell not the bear's skin before you have caught him.
Send a wise man and don't advise him.
Sense does not come before age.
Set a beggar on horseback and he'll ride to the devil.
Set a herring to catch a whale.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Seven horses going to the mill, and not one of them carries a load.
Shall the sheep go astray, they will be led by the ill goat.
Shallow streams make most din.
Shame isn't smoke, it doesn't cut your eyes.
Shame on he who gives up.
Shame take him that shame thinketh.
Shameful to be bitten by a horse, more shameful to be struck by a woman.
Shameful to tell, but painful to endure.
Shared are the believers' belongings.
Shared joy is twice the joy, and shared grief is half the grief.
Shared joy is twice the joy.
She who does not cry when entering marriage will cry when living in wedlock.
She who is not pretty before twenty, wise before thirty, and rich before fifty, will never achieve any of these.
Short accounts make long friends.
Short debts make long friends.
Short prayers reach heaven.
Shortcuts are often "longcuts.".
Should one make the efforts of bhagiratha over a trifle?
Silence gives consent.
Silence hurts no one.
Silence is golden.
Sin punishes itself.
Since adam was a boy.
Since the wife barks at strangers, we don't need a dog.
Sink or swim!
Sit where you are welcomed and helped, and don't sit where you are not welcomed.
Six of one and half a dozen of the other.
Six of one, half a dozen the other.
Skill is better than strength.
Skin is nearer than the skirt.
Sleep is brother to death.
Sleeping farmer gets a dreaming farmhand.
Sloth moves so slowly that poverty will finally catch it.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Slow and steady.
Slow but steady.
Slow but sure.
Slower than a turtle.
Small but peppery.
Small crumbs are bread too.
Small pots have ears too.
Small presents keep up friendship.
Small rain lays a great dust.
Small rain lays great dust.
Small streams make great rivers.
Small wounds and poor friends should not be despised.
Smart people are blessed.
Smoke of the neighbours renders you blind.
Smoother than a breeze.
So many countries, so many customs.
So many men, so many minds.
Soft fire makes sweet malt.
Some eat to live, others live to eat.
Some forgiveness is weakness.
Some people are punished immediately by God.
Someone died, someone cried.
Something is better than nothing.
Something is rotten in the state of denmark.
Something owned in abundance is undervalued.
Something that has happened once can happen again.
Sometimes the blind can see horseshoes.
Sometimes the cure is worse than the disease.
Sometimes to sink, sometimes to rise.
Soon crooks the tree that good gambrel would be.
Soon is the fool tricked.
Soon learnt, soon forgotten.
Soon ripe, soon rotten.
Sooner a rapid is dammed than a wife's mouth.
Sooner said than done.
Sorrow is born of exessive joy.
Sorrow shared, sorrow halved.
Sour grapes.
Sow beans in the mud and they'll grow like wood.
Sow the wind, reap the whirlwind.
Sow thin, shear thin.
Sow wind reap a whirlwind.
Sparing is the first gaining.
Speak of the devil and he is sure to appear.
Speak of the devil and he will appear.
Speak of the devil, and he appears.
Speak of the devil..
Speak with farmers like farmers speak, and with the educated in latin.
Speak, for God spoke to moses.
Speech is silver but silence is gold.
Speech is silver; silence is golden.
Speech shows what a man is.
Spring showers bring life, autumn showers ruin.
Standers-by see more than gamesters.
Standing pools gathers mud.
Standing waters smell.
Steal, but do not get caught.
Steel is softer than gold.
Step after step the ladder is ascended.
Still water runs deep.
Still waters are the deepest.
Still waters run deep.
Stinginess deceives wisdom.
Stinginess demeans the value of man.
Stolen fruit tastes sweet.
Stolen pleasures are sweetest.
Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach.
Stretch your legs according to the coverlet.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Strive not against the stream.
Stroke a cat the wrong way and it'll become angry.
Stroke upon stroke will make even a grinding-stone creep.
Stubborn as a mule.
Stuff today and starve tomorrow.
Stupidity does not kill, but it does keep you in misery.
Stupidity is a disease without a medicine.
Stupidity is worse than theft.
Subtlety is better than force.
Success is never blamed.
Such a beginning, such an end.
Such carpenters, such chips.
Such father, such son.
Such man, such hat.
Such mother, such daughter.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.
Suspicion is the sister of the wrong.
Sweaty is the man who has skied, thirsty the woman who has ground corn into flour.
Sweep before your own door.
Sweep your own doorstep clean.
Take a big bite, don't say a big word.
Take a man by his word and a cow by her horns.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Take care of the pennies and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Take counsel of one's pillow.
Take heed if you find what you do not seek.
Take heed of a stepmother; the very name of her suffices.
Take heed of enemies reconciled and of meat twice boiled.
Take heed of still waters, the quick pass away.
Take something along with you when going out, bring something back when returning.
Take the bull by the horns.
Take the custom where you go.
Take the will for the deed.
Take the world as you find it.
Take things as you find them.
Take us as you find us.
Take with two hands from where you have put with one hand.
Talk is cheap, silence is golden.
Talk is cheap.
Talk much and err much.
Talk of the devil and he is sure to appear.
Talk of the devil..
Talk of the wolf and his tail appears.
Talking pays no toll.
Tarred with the same brush.
Taste is like the buttocks, divided.
Tastes differ.
Teach a man to take a fish is not equal to teach a man how to fish.
Teach your grandmother to suck eggs.
Tears are no help when in trouble, bawling through the bad days.
Teeth on a nail when the bread is finished.
Tell me with whom though goest, and I will tell what though doest.
Tell that to the marines.
Tell the story from the beginning.
Thank who gives you and give who thanks you.
Thanks are worthless.
Thanks do not fill the stomach.
That cock won't fight.
That day, that sorrow.
That hole in the dress is bigger than anyone can fix.
That is true which stands the flame.
That put the red kite among the hens.
That shalbe, shalbe.
That which belongs to heaven, returns to earth.
That which does not kill you, makes you stronger. pain is gain.
That which one least anticipates soonest comes to pass.
That's a horse of another colour.
That's thanks for you when you thank yourself.
That's where the shoe pinches!
That’s the crux.
That’s the rub.
That’s where the shoe pinches.
The anvil fears no blows.
The appetite comes with eating.
The apple does not fall far from the apple tree.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
The apple never falls far form the tree.
The ass that brays most, eats least.
The awkward man has his thumb in the middle of his palm.
The axe goes to the wood whence it borrowed its handle.
The backside answers to a backside's words.
The baker shouldn't comment on his dough.
The bear that is hungry never dances.
The beauty is but a skin deep; within is filth an putrefaction.
The beauty of the soul is known in the face.
The bedclothes are lying down, but I'm not asleep.
The beggar laughs at what the people in the house.
The beggar may sing before a footpad.
The beggar may sing before the thief.
The beginning makes work pretty, in the end thanks stand.
The best answer comes from the man who isn't angry.
The best cloth may have a moth in it.
The best defence is a good offence.
The best defence is a good offense.
The best defense is a good offense.
The best fish smell when they are three days old.
The best fish swim near the bottom.
The best generousity is giving without being asked.
The best goods are cheapest in the end.
The best is oftentimes the enemy of the good.
The best jihad is saying the truth in the face of a dictator.
The best mirror is an old friend.
The best place in the world is on the back of a horse, and the best friend in all time is a book.
The best road is the straightest.
The best step, the first step.
The bigger the crook, the luckier he is.
The bird is known by its note.
The bird loves her own nest.
The bite of a lion is better than an envies look.
The biting dog does not show it's teeth.
The bitter past, more welcome is the sweet.
The blind leads the blind and both fall into the ditch.
The brother wishes for a rich sister, the man for a healthy wife.
The bushes don't rattle if there's no wind.
The busiest man finds the most leisure.
The camel going to seek horns lost his ears.
The cap fits.
The captain is in his ship like God in heaven.
The cardplayer will see the gates of hell.
The careful man takes from his store, the miser from his coffer, the open-handed from his ass.
The carpenter's door is loose.
The carpenter's wife has no batler, the smith's wife has no hatchet.
The cask savours of the first fill.
The cat on the rock is like the horse in the barn.
The cat shuts its eyes when stealing cream.
The cat will eat its prey alone.
The cat would eat fish and would not wet her paws.
The chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
The chicken are counted in the autumn.
The child died calling out for water when he spoke persian in punjab.
The child says nothing but what he heard at the fire.
The choosy one ends up with the ordinary.
The closer to the source, the clearer the water.
The closer you are to the church, the closer you are to hell.
The closer you live to a church, the harder it is to be there on time.
The clothes make the man.
The coal glows from the coals.
The cobbler and the tailor ruin the house.
The cobbler should stick to his last.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
The cock to its perch, the lazy to work, the hardworking to bed.
The cook tries the salt, the matchmaker the bride.
The court is straight but the judge is crooked.
The covetous man is good to none and worst to himself.
The cow licks the one which licks it.
The cow on the one side river thinks the other side green.
The cow with calves cannot avoid giving birth.
The craftsman has a bad roof.
The crow thinks her own birds fairest in the wood.
The crown's hand is long.
The cure for fate is patience.
The danger past, God forgotten.
The darkest hour is that before the dawn.
The darkest place is under the candlestick.
The day will dawn even without the rooster.
The death of a coward comes from over him.
The death of one gives bread to another.
The death of one, the bread of the other.
The debts made to one's mother are never paid.
The deserter is the brother of the murderer.
The devil can cite scripture for his purpose.
The devil is not so black as he is painted.
The devil knows many things because he is old.
The devil lurks behind the cross.
The devil rebuking sin.
The devil will be busy between the newly-weds for seven years.
The devil will bring him heirs, since the Lord takes only his soul.
The devil will bring him heirs, since the lord takes only his soul.
The dew falls on both dirt and lily.
The dew to the ant is a flood.
The distress is not as large as it's made to be.
The doctor is never killed because the patient dies.
The doctors themselves are ill, the quacks themselves suffer.
The dog eats his vomit, the bad man his words.
The dog gnaws the bone because he cannot swallow it.
The dog is always up to dog's trickery.
The dog is another dog's godfather.
The dog that barks doesn't bite.
The dog will bark for his bread.
The dog will find his way back home.
The dog will not yelp if you throw him with a bone.
The dogs bark but the caravan passes on.
The dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
The dogs may bark; the caravan goes on.
The donkey is known by his ears, the fool by his words.
The door swings both ways.
The dripping can hollow the stone.
The drums sound better at a distance.
The drunkard is up to his knees in the sea.
The drunken man's words are the sober man's thoughts.
The dutch have taken holland !
The eagle needs feathers, and the wren does too.
The ear hears more than the eye sees.
The early bird catches the worm.
The early bird gets the worm.
The early one wins.
The earth is hard, God strong.
The east wind won't cease before it rains and a wife's scolding won't cease before she cries.
The elephant in front of your eyes can't be seen but the speck across the sea are clearly visible.
The ember cooks the cabbage, the neighbour weds the maid.
The emptier the stomach, the sweeter the bread.
The end crowns all.
The end crowns the work.
The end is good, everything is good.
The end justifies the means.
The end of life is death.
The end of the grape cluster.
The envious person is the least happy.
The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life.
The evils we bring on ourselves are hardest to bear.
The exception confirms the rule.
The exception proves the rule.
The excuse of the absent is with him.
The eye and holy things can bear no jesting.
The eye can't take.
The eye does not become higher than the eyebrow.
The eye is bigger than the belly.
The eye looks but it is the mind that sees.
The eye that sees all things sees not itself.
The eyes are sometimes a true index of the heart.
The eyes want more than the stomach.
The eyes would continue to eat, though the stomach is full.
The face is the image of the soul, and the eyes are its interpreter.
The face is the index of the mind.
The fair potato is first eaten and the fair maid is first married.
The fairest silk is soonest stained.
The fallen blossom returns not to the bough.
The falling out of lovers is the renewing of love.
The family has its wolves and the home has its devils.
The farmer is the year's boy.
The fat is in the fire.
The father donated a vineyard to his son, the son didn't give a single bunch of grapes to the father.
The fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's teeth are set on edge.
The fault is ours.
The fault was committed in the bush, but it is now talked about on the highway.
The fire is no toy!
The first blow is half the battle.
The first drink to sorrow, the second to a good cause, and the third to step in between the first two.
The first pancake is always spoiled.
The first step to lead, is to consult.
The first task is to stand up after falling.
The fish is killed by its mouth.
The fish rots from the head down ¬¬¬¬.
The fish that gets away is always a large one.
The fish that will be eaten is still in the river.
The fish will bite the patient man's hook and line.
The flight of the eagle will not stop that of the sandfly.
The fly says:'the world is before and behind' =it is at home everywhere.
The fly says:'The world is before and behind' =it is at home everywhere.
The fool should not be goaded, a rotten tree should not be shaken.
The fool's morsel will be eaten first.
The forest answers in the same way one shouts at it.
The friar preached against stealing and had a goose in his sleeve.
The fried dove will not fly into your mouth.
The fried pigeon will not fly into your mouth.
The fright is greater than the wound.
The frightened crow also fears the bush.
The frog burst when it tried to make itself as big as a bull.
The frost drives the pig home.
The fruit of a good tree is also good.
The further away the forest is, the more trees there are.
The furthest way about is the nearest way home.
The game is not worth the candle.
The game isn’t worth the candle.
The geese will tell it in autumn.
The goat quarrelled with the wolf, what remained were the horns and feet.
The gods see through everything.
The good are thanked, the bad reprimanded.
The good master builds a sleigh in the summer and a carriage in the winter.
The good men reject me and the bad men I won't take.
The good-hearted has a heavy load.
The grass is always greener on the far side of the hill.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
The grass is always greener on the other side.
The great folks and dogs know no relationship.
The great ones devour the small.
The greatest poverty is the lack of intelligence.
The green crop is not yet in the granary.
The ground will support its little creatures.
The hailer.
The hand to the nail and the heart to the beloved.
The hand which touches bran will touch money.
The hand works, the mouth is allowed to chew.
The hardest fight is fighting your anger.
The hardest the problem is the closer it is to be solved.
The hasty bitch bringeth forth blind whelps.
The hasty bitch gives birth to blind puppies.
The head can be heated but the heart must stay cool.
The head is the cap's peg.
The healthy have no need for a doctor.
The healthy must carry the ill.
The heart does not lie. —or— the heart sees farther than the head.
The heart is weeping and the mouth is smiling.
The heart sees farther than the head.
The heart that once truly loves never forgets.
The heart's case is hard to open.
The hen that cackles much lays few eggs.
The higher the ape goes, the more he shows his tail.
The higher you climb, the greater you fall.
The higher, the fewer.
The highway is never about.
The hired man hoes as much as the master feeds him.
The horse coddles its young, the wife her stomach's folk.
The horse has four legs and still stumbles.
The house of a tyrant is a ruin.
The hunger drives the pig home.
The hunger is not as large as it's made to be.
The hungry are never sleepy.
The hungry man farts, the fed man belches.
The hunting dogs have scratched faces.
The idea came after the drunkness passed away.
The key to all things is determination.
The kind of fish you catch, the kind of soup you cook.
The king is dead, long live the king.
The king's child is a child too.
The labourer is worthy of his hire.
The labourer looks like his work.
The land gives us bread to eat.
The land grows even when the farmer is sleeping.
The land weds a bad maid and the ham weds the cross-eyed one.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
The last straw breaks the camel's back.
The last will be first, and the first last.
The later in the evening, the more beautiful the people.
The lazy are rich in holidays.
The lazy know nothing of their luck, and the inexperienced of their good fortune.
The lazy person has no work and has no time.
The leopard cannot change his spots.
The leopard cannot change its spots.
The liar is the thief's brother.
The liar will only be trusted once.
The life of man is as spotted as woodpecker's coat.
The lion is not half so fierce as he is painted.
The little fish feed the big fish.
The little hemlock is a sister to the big hemlock.
The little thief is hanged but his resetter is saved.
The living is more important than the dead.
The longest day has an end.
The lord giveth and the lord taketh away.
The lord helps those who help themselves.
The louse says: Burn me in ashes, freeze me in cold air, but don't take in the sauna.
The lowest one is the wrong one.
The maid and hired man are like one soul.
The main foe of man is himself.
The maker surely knows his work.
The man gets a new wife, but the children don't get a mother.
The man has a paddle in his hand, but God guides the boat.
The man is at sea with his fortune, on the waves with his luck.
The man is the head, the women is the neck.
The man who wanted to milk the male goat failed.
The mare makes a lot of colts, but dies with a collar around its neck.
The master's eye.
The master's footsteps fatten the soil.
The master's footsteps make fertile the field.
The master's haste is slow.
The masters' beggars never die from hunger.
The measure you use, that's what you are measured with yourself.
The medicine for hate is separation.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
The miller's pigs are fat.
The mind is a decoration.
The miser's riches are poverty and his kitchen is poor.
The mistake of the scientist leads to mistakes by many people.
The mistress is the first in the house.
The mocked may grow up to dignity, but the mocker will never outgrow his juvenile behaviour.
The moneyless do not trade.
The monkey in his mother's eye is a gazzelle.
The moon does not heed the barking of dogs.
The moon is the crofter's sun.
The Moor has done his duty let him go.
The moor has done his duty let him go.
The more chefs, the worse the soup.
The more haste, the less speed.
The more laws, the more offenders.
The more the merrier.
The more you lie down, the sleepier you are.
The more you stir, the more it will stink.
The more you stroke the cat's tail, the more he raises his back.
The morning sun never lasts a day.
The most deadly of wild beasts is a backbiter, of tame ones a flatterer.
The most fortunate of all is he who dies in the cradle.
The most important thing is not to win, but to fight well.
The most praised form of eloquence is silence when speech isn't wise.
The mother-in-law does not remember that she has been a daughter-in-law.
The mountain has brought forth a mouse.
The mouse that has but one hole is soon catched.
The mouth doesn't sing without melted butter, nor does the tongue talk without cooked pasties.
The mouth is not satisfied until it has tasted cow.
The mouth is related to the road, the eyes demand cleanliness.
The mouth knows what is good, the tongue tastes what is sweet.
The mouth lies, but the eyes tell the truth.
The mouth you cry with it is also the mouth you laugh with.
The mute don't receive a sheep.
The nail that sticks out gets hammered down.
The nail that sticks out gets struck.
The nearer the bone, the sweeter the flesh.
The neck for the bearer, the head for the hunter.
The night bird defeats the day bird.
The noblest vengeance is to forgive.
The northerly wind spends the night next to his wife.
The old are feable, but the young are stupid.
The old are feable, but the young are weak.
The old are wise, but powerless.
The old fox sheds its old hair, but not its old habits.
The old man's day, hardship's day.
The old ones shall be honoured, the young ones shall be taught.
The old talk about what they have done, the young about what they will do.
The older the fiddle the sweeter the tune.
The one who controls himself most, is the one who can keep his own secrets.
The one who knows God most, is the one who accepts whatever God has given him.
The one who loves you will make you cry, the one who hates you will make you laugh.
The one who should be forgiven, is the one who's able to punish.
The one with no spouse takes a cat.
The one without a sword gets humiliated.
The only son and a cottage ram, neither one is a source of happiness.
The only stupid question is the one not asked.
The only trick the incapable has, are his tears.
The ox eats what it carries.
The ox lives while the knife is being sharpened.
The ox will meet the hare in the kettle at the latest.
The oxman spends his night where the horseman does.
The parent's heart in the child, the child's in the cold stone.
The parish clerk and the rooster live off their big mouths.
The path through the turnip field is the straightest.
The patient man's lot is best.
The pebble comes from the mountain.
The pencil writes and paper bears it all.
The people meet each other but the hills do not.
The pig and the smith make the old new.
The pig eats the supplies.
The pig is the poor man's saving bank.
The pillow is the best adviser.
The pitcher goes often to the well but is broken at last.
The pitcher goes often to the well but is broken eventually.
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it is broken at last.
The poor eat what they get, the rich what they want.
The poor give thanks to their sleep, the rich quarrel over their land.
The poor give thanks to their sleep, the rich quarrel over their property.
The poor man finds justice in the doorway and the rich man at the head of the table.
The poor man gives from what little he has, but the rich man does not even give from his plenty.
The poor man has to be the rich man's sewer broom and shovel.
The poor man would cook, too, if only he had a kettle.
The poor man's calves die and the rich man's children.
The pot calls the kettle black.
The pretty should not be burn-beating.
The prey spurs on the hunt.
The price lies in the thing.
The price of the expensive is within him.
The priest's pot is small but full.
The priest's pot is small but tasty.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
The purchased bread is thin.
The purest people are the ones with good manners.
The real art of divination lies in the choice of neighbours, not of houses.
The receiver is as bad as the thief.
The remedy is often worse than the disease.
The remedy is worse than the cure.
The remedy is worse than the disease.
The rich have money like mud.
The rich have money, the poor have children.
The richer, the meaner.
The right hand knows not what the left hand is doing.
The right path is very steep upward, whereas the wrong path is horizontal.
The road carries the load, and not even a good horse.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The rope of lies is short.
The ropeman got mixed with the archer.
The rotten apple injures its neighbours.
The rotten apple spoils his companions.
The rotten apple spoils the barrel.
The rulers live off the farmer's work.
The same as the same and others as others.
The satiated cannot see the hungry.
The scalded dog fears cold water.
The sea gives, the sea takes.
The sea will make a man out of him.
The sea will pay back its debts.
The serpent knows his own hole.
The shoddier wheel makes a louder noise.
The shoemaker goes barefoot.
The shoemaker is always barefooted.
The shoulder is not higher than the head.
The sick want everything.
The sin is not in the sinning but in the being found out.
The sin is not in the sinning, but in the being found out.
The skin on a woman's stomach is made of seven sheep skins.
The slow will win the quick.
The small reach far.
The small sheep, always a lamb.
The smaller the company, the better the share; the bigger the company, the merrier the play.
The smart one will learn from the mistakes of others.
The smarter you get the less you speak.
The smith's horse and the shoemakers children are worst shod.
The soul to the Lord, the rest to the devil.
The soul to the lord, the rest to the devil.
The soup is eaten as cooked.
The Southeasterly will drive the fish from the sea, the Northeasterly from the pot, and the Northwesterly from the spoon.
The southeasterly will drive the fish from the sea, the northeasterly from the pot, and the northwesterly from the spoon.
The spirit cannot live without eating.
The spoken word, the shot arrow, take it away if you can.
The spoonmaker's children have often the worst spoons.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
The stingy has a big porch and little morality.
The stomach gets full before the eye.
The stomach grants no debts.
The stomach is an eye easily blinded.
The stomach is not a glass bottle, whatever you put in it.
The stomach needs to be filled.
The strange master's eyes will not be watery.
The strong always think the weak are guilty.
The strongest cord is made of three strands.
The stupid find relief in the suffering of others.
The stupid might have wanted to help you, but ended up hurting you.
The sun also has its spots.
The sun cannot be hidden by a hand.
The sun rises and the rain falls for all.
The sun shines upon all alike.
The sun will look in our window.
The swallow summer brings, the swallow summer takes.
The sweet potato does not speak of its own sweetness.
The sweetest flesh is near the bones.
The tailor makes the man.
The talented hawk hides its claws.
The thief fears the daylight.
The thief takes what has been left behind by the careless.
The thief's hat is on fire, though there are no flame.
The things passed off like water from a duck's back.
The third time pays for all.
The thread's end will appear if you pull long enough.
The throne is never vacant.
The tongue breaks bones, though itself has none.
The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth; what the heart thinketh the tongue speaketh.
The tongue is not made of bone.
The tongue kills man and the tongue saves man.
The tongue of idle persons is never idle.
The tongue will show the direction.
The tree is known by his fruit.
The tree must be bent while it is young.
The trick the father has, the son has.
The truth can be told even in jest.
The truth comes forward in wine.
The truth holds on to its place.
The truth needs no colors.
The truth will out.
The truthful man has no room even in the tavern.
The turtle who perserveres wins.
The ugly maul their work, the pretty guard their stalk.
The ugly one breaks the mirror.
The village's piper does not exhilarate.
The voice of one man is the voice of no one.
The voice of the people is the drum of God.
The voice of the people is the voice of God.
The walls have ears.
The warp yarn stretched between the beams is already woven.
The water is the same on both sides of the boat.
The water will pay back its debts.
The water you collect from the stream teaches you about its source.
The way a man dies is determined by his occupation.
The way the devil reads the bible.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
The way to hell is paved with good intentions.
The way you call into a forest, the way it echoes back.
The way you make your bed is the way you will lie.
The weather carries the load, and not even a good horse.
The well fed person doesn't understand the hungry one.
The wheel of fortune is forever in motion.
The wife and the oven stay at home.
The wife of the cobbler and the horse of the smith always have bad shoes.
The wife was angry with St. Petersburg for seven years, but the city knew nothing of it.
The wind cannot be caught in a net.
The wind cannot snap a tree which bends down.
The wise drink beer, the ignorant throw up.
The wisest is the one who can forgive.
The wolf breaks the counted sheep.
The wolf finds a reason for taking the lamb.
The wolf has a thick neck, because he does his job on his own.
The wolf is the dog's uncle.
The wolf won't die in front of one gate.
The wood of which tools are made is crooked from the beginning.
The woof makes the cloth.
The work shows the workman.
The worker is his work's slave.
The world does not stand on quarrelling.
The world is a good place if you keep your eyes opened and your mouth shut.
The world is like a dancing girl; it dances to everyone for a little while.
The world is small.
The world wants to be taken in.
The world you get is the world you give away, what goes around comes around or you reap what you sow.
The worst emotion is envy.
The worst wheel makes the most noise.
The written word remains.
The wrong penny takes the straight penny.
The young die when their years come to an end, but the old die from necessity.
The youngest kitten already chases mice.
The youth's skin will last on the hayrack.
There are a lot of spotted dogs in the world.
There are also better men to be found even than the best.
There are always larger fish in the stranger's boat.
There are hardships and there are delights.
There are lees to every wine.
There are more maids than Maukin and more men than Michael.
There are more maids than maukin and more men than michael.
There are more ways to the wood than one.
There are no cakes without work.
There are no secrets in the world.
There are none so blind as they who will not see.
There are plenty more fish in the sea.
There are seven types of fools on this earth: fools for food, drink, work, laziness, money, starving and fools for fighting.
There are three accursed things in a house: rain, smoke, an evil woman.
There are too many chiefs and not enough indians.
There are two sides to every question.
There is a black sheep in every flock.
There is a difference between people and people.
There is a limit to everything.
There is a limit to play.
There is a man in every drunkard, but none in a fool.
There is a place for everything, and everything in its place.
There is a remedy for everything but death.
There is a way from heart to heart.
There is danger in delay.
There is enough salve in God's horn for everyone.
There is land for the ploughman and water for the rower.
There is many a slip betwixt the cup and the lip.
There is more than one way to kill a cat.
There is never a lack of food for the lazy person, nor of work for the industrious.
There is no accord where every man would be a lord.
There is no accounting for taste.
There is no building bridges across the ocean.
There is no bull so big that it won't find its better in a castrator.
There is no cow on the ice.
There is no fire without smoke.
There is no greater torment than to be alone in paradise.
There is no head so small that it does not have some sense in it.
There is no law for fools.
There is no little enemy.
There is no man so tall he doesn't have to stretch and no man so short he doesn't have to bend.
There is no one so old who does not believe that he will live a year more.
There is no place like home.
There is no rose without a thorn.
There is no rule without an exception.
There is no shame in not knowing something; the shame is in not being willing to learn.
There is no smoke without fire.
There is no smoke without some fire.
There is no sound more pleasing than one's owns praises.
There is no trust in horse or woman.
There is no washing a blackamoor white.
There is no woman more accustomed to bad shoes on her than the cobbler's wife.
There is nothing left to do in what has been done.
There is nothing more precious than time.
There is nothing new under the sun.
There is room for noise in the world.
There is sure to be fuel near a big tree.
There is surely plenty of time in a hundred years.
There is the sea - and who shall drain it dry?
There isn't a flood which will not subside.
There must be some moderation.
There must be two at least to a quarrel.
There often lies falsehood beneath a pretty skin.
There seldom is a single wave.
There was often a bad cloth on a tailor and a bad shoe on a cobbler.
There will always be hay where a load turns over.
There will fly no fried goose into the sleeping mans mouth.
There would be eaters if there were only collectors.
There's a sucker born every minute.
There's always tomorrow.
There's enough yarn in the world to make a shirt for the poor man.
There's many a slip between the cup and the lip.
There's no smoke without fire.
There's no such thing as bad weather, only the wrong clothes.
There's no use crying over spilt milk.
They agree like cats and dogs.
They are different men who wash corpses, and different men who bury them.
They are hand and glove.
They must hunger in winter that will not work in summer.
They planted so we ate, and we plant so they would eat.
They say that the best counsel is that of woman.
They talk like angels but live like men.
They way you sow is the way your reap.
They who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.
Things aren't as they seem.
Things never turn out the way you imagined.
Things past cannot be recalled.
Think before you act.
Think first about your idea, for later regrets are useless.
Think today and speak tomorrow.
This world has been spoilt with women and wolves.
Those are wise that heed advice, but no one should heed dissuasive advice.
Those who are far from the eye are far from the heart.
Those who don't look forward, stay behind.
Those who in quarrels interpose must often wipe a bloody nose.
Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones.
Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas.
Those who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.
Those who've had their fingers burned think twice next time.
Thou shalt not steal.
Though near be the stone to the ground, closer is the help of coivi.
Though the horse never washes its eyes, it is still strong.
Though the night tarry, the dawn will break.
Though the sore be healed, yet a scar may remain.
Though thou hast ever so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul.
Though thy enemy seem a mouse, yet watch him like a lion.
Thought he was a great catch, turns out he is a shackle.
Thoughts pay no customs.
Three that come unbidden – love, jealousy and fear.
Three things a man should never lend to others: his wife, his knife and his boat.
Three things come without being wanted, age, love, and rheumatism.
Three times is good for everything.
Through yourself you know others.
Tie a knot at the end of the string, so you won't have to stick in vain.
Tie your camel and rely on God.
Tie your horse well, your boat even better.
Tighter than a needle's eye.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Time and tide waits for no man.
Time and tide waits for none.
Time conquers all.
Time cures all things.
Time cures all wounds.
Time has eaten and drank upon it.
Time heals all wounds.
Time is money.
Time is precious.
Time is the great healer.
Time is the oldest.
Time passes by quickly when you are enjoying yourself.
Time runs like the river current.
Time will bring everything out into the open.
Time will tell.
Time works wonders.
Tit for tat.
To add fuel to the fire.
To add oil to the flames.
To angle with a silver hook.
To be born with a silver spoon in one's mouth.
To be head over ears in debt.
To be in one's birthday suit.
To be sick first, to be happy later.
To be up to the ears in love.
To be wise behind the hand.
To beat about the bush.
To beat the air.
To bite off more than one can chew.
To bring grist to somebody's mill.
To build a fire under oneself.
To buy a pig in a poke.
To call a spade a spade.
To call off the dogs.
To carry coals to newcastle.
To carry owls to athens.
To carry wood back into the forest.
To cast pearls before swine.
To cast prudence to the winds.
To clean the beak by rubbing it on the ground.
To close the gate of the bull pen after the bull has escaped is foolishness.
To come away none the wiser.
To come off cheap.
To come off with a whole skin.
To come off with flying colours.
To come out dry.
To come out with clean hands.
To continue is power.
To cook a hare before catching him.
To cry with one eye and laugh with the other.
To cut one's throat with a feather.
To dance to a person's pipe.
To dare is to lose your foothold for a moment, to not dare is to lose yourself.
To defend a wrong, is to wrong do anew.
To dig one's grave with one's own hands.
To dine with Duke Humphrey.
To draw in one's horns.
To draw water in a sieve.
To drop a bucket into an empty well.
To each, their own fun.
To eat the calf in the cow's belly.
To err is human, to forgive, divine.
To err is human.
To everything there is a season.
To fiddle while rome is burning.
To fight with one's own shadow.
To find a mare's nest.
To fish in troubled waters.
To fit like a glove.
To flog a dead horse.
To frighten a bird is not the way to catch it.
To get out of bed on the wrong side.
To give a lark to catch a kite.
To give a thing and take a thing is fit for the devil's darling.
To go for wool and come home shorn.
To go through fire and water.
To have a finger in the pie.
To have one foot in the grave.
To have rats in the attic.
To heal all disease, take garlic and may butter; drink along with that white goats’ milk.
To hit the nail on the head.
To kick against the pricks.
To kill a bull by straightening its horns.
To kill two birds with one stone.
To kiss the child for love of the nurse.
To know everything is to know nothing.
To know on which side one's bread is buttered.
To know what's what.
To lay by for a rainy day.
To lazy pigs the ground is always frozen.
To live from hand to mouth.
To lock the stable-door after the horse is stolen.
To look at the stars and fall into a ditch.
To look for a needle in a haystack.
To love somebody as the devil loves holy water.
To love something as the devil loves holy water.
To make a mountain out of a molehill.
To make both ends meet.
To make the air blue.
To make the cup run over.
To measure another man's foot by one's own last.
To measure other people's corn by one's own bushel.
To pay one back in one's own coin.
To plough the sand.
To pour water into a sieve.
To pull the chestnuts out of the fire for somebody.
To pull the devil by the tail.
To put a spoke in somebody's wheel.
To put off till doomsday.
To put the cart before the horse.
To quake at work and sweat at meals.
To rob one's belly to cover one's back.
To roll in money.
To run with the hare and hold with the hound.
To run with the hare and hunt with the hounds.
To save one's bacon.
To send owls to athens.
To separate is to die a little.
To set the cart before the horse.
To set the wolf to keep the sheep.
To shoot a sparrow with a large cannon.
To speak is silver, to keep silent is gold.
To steal the goose and give the giblets in alms.
To stick to somebody like a leech.
To strain at a gnat and swallow a camel.
To take counsel of one's pillow.
To take the bull by the horns.
To teach the dog to bark.
To tell tales out of school.
To the place where the heart loves the feet will carry you.
To throw a stone in one's own garden.
To throw dust in somebody's eyes.
To throw pearls before swine.
To throw straws against the wind.
To treat somebody with a dose of his own medicine.
To turn the air blue.
To use a steam-hammer to crack nuts.
To warm a snake in your bosom.
To wash one's dirty linen in public.
To wear one's heart upon one's sleeve.
To weep over an onion.
To work with the left hand.
To) late shall the sinner awaken.
Today gold, tomorrow soil.
Today me, tomorrow thee.
Today red, tomorrow dead.
Today's egg is better than tomorrow's chicken.
Tomorrow come never.
Tomorrow comes never.
Tomorrow has its care, the next day its tasks.
Tomorrow is a new day.
Tomorrow is close if you wait for it.
Tomorrow's backside is black.
Tongueless woes are not known.
Too many captains and the ship rolls.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Too much hope deceives.
Too much humility brings humiliation.
Too much knowledge makes the head bald.
Too much laughter discovers folly.
Too much of a good thing is good for nothing.
Too much of one thing, good for nothing.
Too much the death of he who is moving.
Too much water drowned the miller.
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
Tougher than a rock.
Tougher than a stone.
Travel makes a wise man better, but a fool worse.
Travellers have leave to lie.
Treat others as you would want to be treated yourself.
Trouble never comes crying.
Troubles come in packs.
True blue will never stain.
True coral needs no painter's brush.
True jests are the worst.
True love never grows old.
True only the second time around.
True only the second time around. a friend shows in misfortune.
Trust begets trust.
Trust in God, but lock your car.
Trust your instincts.
Trust yourself and your horse!
Truth comes out of the mouths of babes and sucklings.
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about.
Truth is simple, lies are complicated.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Truth lies at the bottom of a well.
Truths and roses have thorns about them.
Twice is a guest dear: on arrival and on departure.
Two are in fifty, ten tens in a hundred.
Two blacks do not make a white.
Two cocks cannot roost on the same perch.
Two dogs fight over a bone, and the third takes it.
Two heads are better than one.
Two heads in one hood at once.
Two is a crowd, but three is a company.
Two is always two.
Two is company, but three is none.
Two kings in one kingdom do not agree well together.
Two men will meet sooner than two mountains.
Two of a trade never agree.
Two tasks for a guest: to arrive and to depart.
Two women together is a small marketplace, three a fair.
Uglier than a monkey.
Uglier than a pig.
Uglier than an ogre.
Uglier than magic.
Under the lamp, darkness.
Understand the boat and the boat will understand you.
Ungratefulness is the world's wages.
Union is strength.
United we stand, divided we fall.
Unity is power.
Unseriousness eats pumpkin leaves.
Unused firewood mocks the burning wood.
Variety delights.
Variety is the spice of life.
Variety pleases.
Velvet paws hide sharp claws.
Villages visited and bread eaten and the crust brought home.
Virtue is its own reward.
Virtue is not lost with age.
Virtue is the foundation of happiness, vice the presage of misery.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.
Wait for the cat to jump.
Wake not a sleeping dog.
Walk the talk.
Walk the walk, then talk the talk.
Walls have ears.
War does not look in the eyes.
Warned is armed.
Warned is forearmed.
Wash your dirty linen at home.
Waste not, want not.
Watch out for a bull's front side, a horse's backside, and a bad person's every side.
Watch the mother's habits before marrying the daughter.
Water afar does not quench a fire at hand.
Water flows, rock erodes.
Water is a brother's mercy, husk is a sister's mercy.
Water is medicine to shit.
Water is stronger than spirits, it topples even large mills.
Water keeps the boat afloat, but can also sink it.
Water under the bridge.
Water will stand in a hollow.
We all start out as children.
We are all Adam's children.
We are all descended from adam.
We are all in the same boat.
We are to learn as long as we live.
We know not what is good until we have lost it.
We learn as long as we live.
We live as we can, not as we wish.
We must take things as we find them.
We never know the value of water till the well is dry.
We never know the worth of water until the well runs dry.
We ourselves feel that what we are doing is just a drop in the ocean. but the ocean would be less because of that missing drop.
We rode slow, but we ride sure.
We shall see what we shall see.
We soon believe what we desire.
We'll see what we'll see.
Wealth comes like a turtle and goes away like a gazelle.
Wealth is nothing without health.
Wealth is short-lived.
Wealth rarely brings happiness.
Weather can't be put in a pot.
Weeping does not keep you from death.
Well begun is half done.
Well begun, is half done.
Went to haj while pilgrims are coming back.
What ails folk, they'll bewail it.
What ails folk, they'll talk about.
What are the piglet's habits, so are they the sow's.
What can you do with an eye that does not see.
What can't be cured, must be endured.
What do the rich care, put more fat in the cabbage.
What do you take from something that is empty.
What does a monkey knows about the taste of ginger?
What does not kill you makes you stronger.
What doesn't kill, hardens.
What everybody says must be true.
What everyone says must be true.
What goes around comes around.
What goes around, comes around.
What has no tongue pulls a fool's load.
What I do is what others do.
What is a workman without his tools?
What is acquired easily is lost easily.
What is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh.
What is done by night appears by day.
What is done cannot be undone.
What is done in the dark is seen in the day.
What is done no longer needs to be done.
What is done, is done.
What is got over the devil's back is spent under his belly.
What is hidden in snow is revealed at thaw.
What is in the heart, comes to the tongue.
What is in the pot will come out in the ladle.
What is in your dreams at night is what is in your head during the day.
What is it for the driver that the master will drive.
What is learned in youth is remembered in old age.
What is learnt in the cradle lasts to the tomb.
What is lost is lost.
What is salty ties the heart.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
What is the use of crying when the birds ate the whole farm?
What is tight for one is best for two and large for three.
What is told in the ear of a man is often heard a hundred miles away.
What is unclearly said is unclearly thought.
What is used wears down.
What is valuable is not new, and what is new is not valuable.
What is worth doing at alt is worth doing well.
What is written with a quill pen cannot be erased by an axe.
What is, is.
What it looks like, that's what it tastes like.
What kind of parents, such children.
What matters if we drink milk in a dream out of bellmetal or gold?
What must be, must be.
What one's head lacks one has to have in one's legs.
What rains before Midsummer rains into the grain bin.
What rains before midsummer rains into the grain bin.
What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals.
What starts with a needle usually ends with a silver bowl.
What the father collects, the son divides.
What the goat does, the kid follows.
What the good-wife spares, the cat eats.
What the heart thinks the tongue speaks.
What the heart thinks, the mouth speaks.
What the mother is singing, her young will be chirping.
What the sea takes it also returns.
What we do willingly is easy.
What you can do today don't put off to tomorrow.
What you collect in youth, you'll find in front of you in old age.
What you cook you eat.
What you cut can no longer be brought together.
What you do not know does not hurt you.
What you do when drunk, you answer for when sober.
What you don't have the strength to carry, you don't have to lift up.
What you don't want to hide, you tell your wife.
What you eat and sleep, you get for yourself.
What you get used to as young man you keep up that habit as an old man.
What you have given will be a shield.
What you lose at the swings you take back at the merry-go-round.
What you lose on the swings you gain on the roundabouts.
What you make alone, you eat alone.
What you reap is what you sow.
What's done is done.
What's got over the devil's back is bent under his belly.
What's talked about is what's missing.
Whatever is broken will grow back, whatever is lost will be replaced.
Whatever measure you deal out to others will be dealt back to you.
Whatever will be, will be.
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end.
What’s done is done; don't lock the stable door after the horse has bolted.
When **** speak it is too late to argue.
When a cat goes out for a walk, the mice throw a party.
When a child gets what he wants, he keeps his mouth shut.
When a child stumbles, the devil cushions his fall; when a grown-up falls, it jumps on top.
When a daughter is born, nothing is born, when a son is born, the real thing is born.
When a dog learns to lick the quern, it won't change its habits.
When a door closes another opens.
When a strange cow sets foot in the herd, the others tease it with their horns.
When a thing is done, advice comes too late.
When all men say you are an ass it is time to bray.
When angry, count a hundred.
When anyone has learnt to steal he must also learn to hang.
When at rome, do as the romans do.
When children stand quiet, they have done some harm.
When distress is the greatest, help is the nearest.
When doing good, you're rewarded with shit.
When eating porridge, don't pity butter.
When everyone spits on it, the stone will get wet.
When flatterers meet, the devil goes to dinner.
When ginger is made from chicken shit it's pretty fine.
When God brings death, the devil brings heirs.
When good is sought, better is found.
When has the greedy man had enough?
When hungry, any food is fit for a while.
When I itch, I must scratch.
When in doubt, leave it out.
When in rome do as the romans.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
When in rome, do as the romans do.
When in rome, do as the romans.
When in rome, do as the romans. when among wolves you must howl.
When it comes on one it comes on all.
When it rains and the sun shines..
When it rains and the sun shines...
When it rains manna from heaven, the poor one does not have a spoon.
When it rains on the priest, it dripples on the sacristan.
When it's caught together, it's also eaten together.
When matters are drawn out, they become twisted.
When misfortune arrives, it comes through doors and windows.
When one door closes another opens.
When one lives, one experiences.
When pigs fly.
When poisoned, one might as well swallow the plate.
When poverty comes in at the door, friendship flees out at the window.
When queen anne was alive.
When something has been denied of you, you can still do it once.
When the bread is finished, then pies are eaten.
When the cat is away, the mice dance on the floor.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
When the cat is away, the rats dance on the table.
When the cat's away, the mice will play.
When the crow sings early it means warm weather.
When the devil grows old he turns religious.
When the devil is blind.
When the father's generation eats salt, the child's generation thirsts for water.
When the fox is engaging you in conversation, keep an eye on your chicken.
When the fox preaches, take care of your geese.
When the fox sleeps, no grapes fall in his mouth.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
When the light is crooked, the shadow is crooked.
When the luckless plan to be wed the nights begin to shorten.
When the mouse is full, the flour tastes bitter.
When the mouse laughs at the cat, there is a hole.
When the need is highest, help is nearest.
When the oil is exhausted the lamp goes out.
When the pig is proffered, hold up the poke.
When the pinch comes, you remember the old shoe.
When the plating goes, the base will show.
When the reason is known, there will be no more wonder.
When the shepherd is angry with his flock, he appoints a blind sheep as leader.
When the tree falls, the monkeys scatter.
When the tree is fallen every man goes to it with his hatchet.
When the trough is empty, the pigs start to squabble.
When the veil of night falls, all colors are equal.
When there is no fish in the river, shrimps are valued.
When thieves fall out, honest men get their own.
When three know it, alt know it.
When three women get together, it's a village meeting.
When thy friend asks, let there be no to-morrow.
When times are hard even the male will cub.
When we are gone, let happen what may.
When will the greedy be content and when will hell be full?
When wine is in wit is out.
When you do not see him you desire him; when you see him you loathe him.
When you fall, you won't fall lower than the ground.
When you flee from a wolf, you run into a bear.
When you fool a fool, the more foolish he will be.
When you give, give and be quiet.
When you're speaking about the trolls, they're standing in the entrance hall listening.
When your elders are talking, children should be silent.
When your neighbour's wall breaks, your own is in danger.
When your son grows up, become his brother.
Where a bird sits, there a feather is left.
Where can a man flee from his given days.
Where else would the shit be than in the cart.
Where force rules, justice does not exist.
Where God bestows an office, he gives brains to fill it.
Where God builds a church, the devil builds a chapel.
Where God has a church the devil will have his chapel.
Where people are promising much to you, bring a small bag.
Where shall the ladle be if not in the cauldron?
Where the carcass is the ravens will gather.
Where the devil can't go, he sends a bad woman.
Where the horse lies down, there some hair will be found.
Where the needle goes, the string follows.
Where the red goat was lying, the grass does not grow for forty years =riddle: war, forest fire.
Where the work is being done, there the bread is eaten.
Where there is a will, there is a way.
Where there is an advantage there is also a disadvantage.
Where there is butter there are flies.
Where there is life, there is misfortune.
Where there is wealth, there are friends.
Where there's a will, there's a way.
Where there's smoke, there's fire.
Where wine enters sense leaves.
Whether I pull or push, it won't get better.
Whichever way you turn the rump is on your backside.
While the grass grows the horse starves.
While the grass grows the steed starves.
While the grass grows, the steed starves.
While the grass is growing the steed starves.
While there is life there is hope.
While there's life there's hope.
Whine you may even in good clothes.
Who arrives uninvited, leaves without asking.
Who asks is given.
Who begins with little finishes with plenty.
Who breaks, pays.
Who can see in the future?
Who chases two rabbits catches neither.
Who digs a trap for others ends up in it himself.
Who doesn't appreciate the litte does not deserve the big.
Who falls short in the head must be long in the heels.
Who goes into the water is dry when he comes out.
Who goes more bare than the shoemaker's wife and the smith's mare.
Who has a bell around his neck has his head down.
Who has a cunt has power.
Who has long fingers is a thief.
Who has never tasted bitter, knows not what is sweet.
Who has not served cannot command.
Who is angered by play is a fool.
Who is fated to be hanged will not die in the water.
Who is feared also shows mercy.
Who is first put into the bag is last taken out.
Who is given eats much, who takes himself eats more.
Who is itching must scratch himself.
Who is merciful to the cruel eventually would be cruel to the merciful.
Who is not struck by words is not struck by a cane.
Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl.
Who keeps company with the wolf, will learn to howl.
Who keeps company with the wolves, will learn to howl.
Who keeps silent defeats everyone.
Who knows a lot, runs along the road; who knows little, sleeps on the oven.
Who promises a lot, gives a little.
Who pursues work is not yet a man, who is pursued by work is a man.
Who saw a peacock dance in the woods?
Who says "a" must say "b".
Who sings in the morning, cries in the evening.
Who sows the wind will reap the storm.
Who spends the summer singing has an empty belly in the winter.
Who talks a lot lies a lot.
Who wakes early finds gold.
Who wants to lick honey must not shy away from the bees.
Who wants to win a gander, you need to weigh drake.
Who will not keep a penny, shall never have many.
Who would gather everyone's view.
Who would invite a fool to his wedding.
Whoever digs a hole for someone else, will fall in it themselves.
Whoever owns the stick owns the buffalo.
Whom God will destroy, he first make mad.
Whom God will help no man can hinder.
Whom God wishes to destroy, he first makes mad.
Whose the cow, his the calf, no matter whose the ox is.
Whose work, his food.
Whosoever digs a pit, will fall into it himself.
Why should he worry about swimming if his head is being carried.
Why should the seal worry in a sea full of small fish.
Wikimedia foundation powered by mediawikieven if you know the way, ask one more time.
Wikimedia foundation powered by mediawikioh, what a pair! a snail and a slug!
Will not be who has waited till the food is cooked, also wait till it cools?
Will the word pumpkin serve for a meal?
Winds blow counter to what ships desire.
Wine has drowned more than the sea.
Winning is earning, losing is learning., sadder but wiser.
Wisdom begins with the fear of God.
Wisdom comes with age.
Wisdom goes not always by years.
Wisdom gotten from age is better than the shell of a tortoise.
Wisdom has long ears and short tongue.
Wise after the event.
Wise fear begets care.
Wise men learn by other men's harms, fools by their own.
Wise men learn by other men's mistakes, fools by their own.
Wish that summer would come along with flies so that even a poor man would have friends.
Wishers and woulders are never good householders.
Wit will arrive, but only on the night train.
With a good friend the hours are short.
With butter goes even iron nail heads.
With butter goes even old mittens.
With carefulness you realize your opportunity.
With foxes you must play the fox.
With one's hat in one's hand one goes throughout the land.
With only a drop of alcohol, a pot of milk is damaged.
With rapport and offsprings.
With the same mouth the lies are exposed.
With time and patience the leaf of the mulberry becomes satin.
With violets and goats’ milk anoint your face, and every king’s son in the world will be after you.
Without a voice even the fool is wise.
Without legs one cannot run far, nor without wings fly.
Without manure he growing grain will not yield a good crop.
Without temptation there is no victory.
Without the support of small pebbles, a big rock cannot be stable.
Without work - there are no kolaches.
Woe to the kingdom whose king is a child.
Wolf in sheep's clothing.
Women and cats have hardy spirits.
Women in state affairs are like monkeys in glass shops.
Wonders will never cease.
Wood burns most bright when joined with other wood.
Words cut more than swords.
Words don't match with actions.
Words may pass, but blows fall heavy.
Words pay no debts.
Work for the engagement of your daughter, but don't work for the engagement of your son.
Work is a man's honour, skill his best thing.
Work is afraid of the master.
Work not, eat not.
Work teaches work.
Working and working at it, iron can be pulverized.
Worry does not let a man sleep, ordeals do not let him rest.
Years know more than books.
Yesterday is lived through, today is lived up to this moment.
You aim at magpies but shoot at crows.
You are always closest to yourself.
You are like the company you keep.
You are like your friends.
You are striking cold iron.
You are welcome to all we have.
You are what your friends are.
You begin to know how to by learning.
You can catch more flies with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
You can catch more flies with honey than you can with vinegar.
You can do any job later.
You can even get used to life in hell.
You can go without food, but not without clothes.
You can mock the old but never the cripple.
You can never tell from the sky or a child's bottom.
You can put up with its kicks if a cow gives milk.
You can take a horse to the water but you cannot make him drink.
You can tell a chicken by its eggs.
You can't break a wall with your head.
You can't catch the wind in a net.
You can't exchange an egg with an egg.
You can't get blood out of a stone.
You can't get cloth from chicken shit.
You can't get figs from thistles.
You can't get silk from shit, cloth from chicken shit.
You can't get silk from shit.
You can't get something for nothing.
You can't get two hides from one bull.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
You can't hold two watermelons in one hand.
You can't kill a wolf with a nail.
You can't kill someone's habit.
You can't make a shtreimel from a pig's tail.
You can't make something beautiful by force.
You can't milk a bull.
You can't place your worries in a basket.
You can't put a cover on a mouth.
You can't serve wisdom with a ladle.
You can't swim far against the current nor walk fast up a hill.
You can't take it with you.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
You can't teach old dogs to sit.
You cannot buy time.
You cannot eat your cake and have it.
You cannot flay the same ox twice.
You cannot judge a tree by it bark.
You cannot know wine by the barrel.
You cannot make a cattle dog out of a wolf.
You cannot make a silk purse of a sow's ear.
You cannot recover a lost moment.
You cannot run and pee at the same time.
You cannot teach old dogs new tricks.
You cannot wash charcoal white.
You can’t expect perfection every time.
You can’t make an omelette without breaking an egg.
You can’t unring a bell.
You catch fish with both hands.
You do not get everything which you are meowing for.
You don't become rich with large earnings but with small costs.
You don't get anything for nothing.
You don't get nothing for nothing.
You don't get nothing for nothing; the only free cheese is in the mouse trap.
You don't have to teach your son; life will teach him.
You don't miss the cow until the stall is empty.
You don't need a mirror to look at the wound in your palm.
You don't want what you can't see.
You get what you pay for.
You give the wolf the wether to keep.
You have to correct your mouth according to your lunch pack.
You have to learn to crawl before you can learn to walk.
You hear what you want to hear.
You know much if you know how to live.
You leave work only under the turf.
You left them lost and bewildered.
You live according to your livelihood, you row according to the water.
You lost a sheep that you made a wolf its guardian, didn't you know that the wolf is a thief.
You made your bed, now lie in it.
You may become poorer but not thinner.
You might as well try to hold an eel by the tail.
You must learn to crawl before you can walk.
You must learn to creep before you go.
You must meet roughness with roughness.
You must not run after two hares at the same time.
You need a brother, without one you're like a person rushing to battle without a weapon.
You need money enough to keep the dogs from pissing on your feet.
You need to be strong to beat the devil.
You need to face your fears.
You never get tired of working for yourself.
You never have more fun than what you do.
You never know what you can do till you try.
You never miss the water till the well runs dry.
You never miss the well till it runs dry.
You reap what you sow.
You scratch my back, I’ll scratch yours.
You see the penny's hole but not the larger coin's hole.
You should always sleep with one eye open.
You should forge while the iron is hot.
You should hammer your iron, while it is glowing hot;strike while the iron's hot.
You should not add oil to the fire.
You should not be born pretty but lucky.
You should not have enmity with the crocodile if you are living in the water.
You should not judge a dog by its fur.
You there and me here.
You were born once, you will die once; no one dies twice.
You will be judged by the standards you judge others by.
You will reach your destination even though you travel slowly.
You won't know someone unless you have eaten a sack of salt together.
You wouldn't believe it before you see it with your own eyes.
You'll never get anything new if you don't use the old!
You've asked for trouble.
You've made your bed, now lie in it.
Your brother is that who consoles you.
Your brother is who gives you honest advice.
Your brother is who's honest with you, not who believes you.
Your elbow is close at hand but you can't bite it.
Your enemies won't believe you and your friends won't need it.
Your lord is the lord of hearts.
Your nose is a part of you even if it was cut.
Your own cabin, your own rules.
Your own child how sweet, the other's but a wood ship.
Your own daughter is taught, the motherless learns her lesson.
Your own hide is the most valuable of all.
Your own land is the dearest, your own forest the sweetest.
Your own life is more valuable than another's.
Your own straw bed is better than a stranger's feather bed.
Your own whip and another's horse.
Your own woof, your own warp.
Your relatives are more deserving of your generosity.
Your wound has hairs of the same dog that bit you.
Youth is wasted on the young.
Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse.
Тоо many midwives deliver a sickly baby.