When the pig is proffered, hold up the poke.
No pain, no gain
Nothing ventured, nothing gained
Without work - there are no kolaches.
He that makes himself an ass must not take it ill if men ride him.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
Each day brings it own bread.
He who serves God has a good master.
God who gives the wound gives the salve.
All good things are three.
He was in Rome and did not see the pope.
Poverty is no crime.
It is a poor mouse that has only one hole.
Plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you will have corn to sell and keep.
The written word remains.
You are welcome to all we have.
Never put off until tomorrow what you can do today.
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest
Don't wash your dirty linen in public.
Easy come, easy go.
What you reap is what you sow.
Time is money.
Ingratitude is the world's reward.
Take the world as you find it.
He that promises too much means nothing.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Give him an inch and he will take a yard.
Take the will for the deed.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
A closed mouth catches no flies.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
The voice of the people is the voice of god.
Children, fools and drunken men tell the truth.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
The way you call into a forest, the way it echoes back.
Like mother, like daughter.
One fool makes many.
A swallow makes no summer.
A honey tongue and a heart of gall.
Every bird must hatch its own eggs.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
Grasp all, lose all.
A stick is easily found to beat a dog.
He who digs a pit for others, will fall in it himself.
First come, first served.
love me, love my dog.
Who falls short in the head must be long in the heels.
He laughs best who laughs last.
A king's favour is no inheritance.
He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
Don't hear one and judge two.
What is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh.
The more you stroke the cat's tail, the more he raises his back.
Whom God will destroy, he first make mad.
He that will not be counseled cannot be helped.
The shoemaker goes barefoot.
Punishment is lame but it comes.
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
Physician, heal yourself!
Better late than never.
Keep your mouth shut and your ears open.
Do not think that one enemy is insignificant, or that a thousand friends are too many.
Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad.
A lie has no legs.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Better be alone than in bad company.
A liar should have a good memory.
Better a bad bush than no shelter.
Many are called but few are chosen.
A fair face and a foul heart.
Heaven helps those who help themselves.
Take heed of enemies reconciled and of meat twice boiled.
There is no smoke without fire.
Judge not a man and things at first sight.
Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
You must meet roughness with roughness.
The sin is not in the sinning, but in the being found out.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Mind your own business.
Misfortune comes on horseback and goes away on foot.
Let the buyer have a thousand eyes for the seller wants only one.
Envy always shooteth at a high mark.
All that glitters is not gold.
Don't add fuel to the fire.
No need of words, trust deeds.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
New brooms sweep clean.
What everyone says must be true.
The eye looks but it is the mind that sees.
United we stand, divided we fall
Union is strength.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
Hindsight is 20-20
After wit is every body's wit.
Better late than never.
It is not the hen that cackles the most that lay the most eggs.
Pride comes before the fall.
The early bird catches the worm.
Morning is wiser than the evening.
Divide and conquer.
A fish stinks from the head.
Well begun is half done.
Honesty is the best policy.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
Misery loves company.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
Paper is forbearing.
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it is broken at last.
Still water runs deep.
You can't milk a bull.
A drowning man plucks at a straw.
Patience is the best remedy.
Better is the enemy of good.
Many hands make light work.
No one can be the judge in his own case.
Every hair casts its shadow.
Crows do not pick out crow's eyes.
From nothing nothing can come.
Envy takes no holiday.
Good health is above wealth.
You can't get something for nothing.
Never judge by appearances
Judge not a man and things at first sight.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
