In for a penny, in for a pound.
A tree is known by its fruit.
The best defence is a good offence.
Take care of the pennies and the pounds will take care of themselves.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
When the cat's away, the mice will play
Variety pleases.
Every little helps.
Everything is worth its price.
Every why has a wherefore.
If the mountain will not come to Mohammed, Mohammed must go to the mountain.
Give him an inch he will take a yard.
Everyone should sweep before his own door.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Better safe than sorry.
Better late than never.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Look before you leap.
At night all cats are grey.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
One nail drives out another.
The last will be first, and the first last.
Something that has happened once can happen again.
A constant drip wears the stone.
People are like fish; the big ones devour the small.
Man proposes but God disposes.
First come, first served.
Love me, love my dog.
walls have ears.
Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad.
Whatever will be, will be.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
The voice of the people is the voice of God.
All truths are not to be told.
Honey is sweet, but the bees sting.
Before you make a friend eat a bushel of salt with him.
If you do good, good will be done to you.
Preachers say: do as I say, not as i do.
Missing the forest because of the trees.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Poets are born, but orators are trained.
A drowning man plucks at a straw.
A fool may give a wise man counsel.
Warned is forearmed.
The covetous man is good to none and worst to himself.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
Let the buyer have thousand eyes for the seller wants only one.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
His own desire leads every man.
Set a herring to catch a whale.
There is nothing new under the sun.
Look before you leap, for snakes among sweet flowers do creep.
There are none so blind as they who will not see.
None so deaf as those who will not hear.
Never judge by appearances; Judge not a man and things at first sight.
Give him an inch and he will take a yard.
If you pay peanuta you get monkeys.
An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains.
Money is there to be spent.
There is no rule without an exception.
Common fame is often to blame.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
Physician, heal yourself!
Good health is above wealth.
Might is not always right.
A mans worst enemies are often those of his own house.
Each day brings it own bread.
Courage lost, all lost.
Good wine needs no bush.
If you buy cheaply you pay dearly. / Penny-wise, pound foolish.
Better is the enemy of good.
Lead by example.
More haste, less speed.
A king's favour is no inheritance.
Today me, tomorrow thee.
All is well that ends well.
Fortune favours the bold.
It is not what you say, it is the way you say it.
The remedy is often worse than the disease.
You must meet roughness with roughness.
Time and tide waits for no man.
Good riding at two anchors, men have told, for if the one fails, the other may hold.
All that glitters is not gold.
Reason does not come before age.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
Put a beggar on horseback and he'll ride it to death.
He was in Rome and did not see the pope.
The more the merrier.
Wisdom goes not always by years.
Pride comes before fall.
When in doubt, leave it out.
In wine there is truth.
Among the blind, the one-eyed is king.
If a job is worth doing, it is worth doing well.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Knowledge is power.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
Little pitchers have great ears.
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end.
A lie has short legs.
You can catch more flies with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
It is by the head that the cow gives the milk.
You don't get nothing for nothing; The only free cheese is in the mouse trap.
Don't count your chickens before they're hatched.
Don't put all your eggs in the same basket.
Don't burn the candles at both ends.
Whatever measure you deal out to others will be dealt back to you.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Do not play with edged tools.
Measure thrice, cut once.
After rain comes sunshine.
No one can be the judge in his own case.
No man is indispensable.
No one knows where the shoe pinches, but he who wears it.
A new broom sweeps clean.
Necessity has no law.
Misfortune comes on horseback and goes away on foot.
Misery loves company.
It will all be the same a hundred years hence.
Do not throw pearls before swine.
Shame take him that shame thinketh.
A shoemaker must not go beyond his laft.
He who does not advance goes backwards.
Kill two birds with one stone.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Of two evils choose the least.
Divide and conquer.
Love, smoke and cough are hard to hide.
Early ripe, early rotten.
A golden key opens any gate but that of heaven.
What everybody says must be true.
It takes two to tango.
What is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh.
Paper is forbearing.
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
Don't cross your bridges until you reach them.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
He who is not with me is against me.
You must not run after two hares at the same time.
No one gets rich quickly if he is honest.
Who falls short in the head must be long in the heels.
sow the wind, reap the whirlwind
Mild physician, putrid wound.
He that leaves a certanity and sticks to chance, when fools pipe he may dance.
Don't blow your own horn.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
Like father, like son.
Like mother, like daughter.