One should choose the lesser of two evils.
Wisdom goes not always by years.
Gray hairs are honorable.
Age and poverty are ill to bear.
Every little helps.
There are too many chiefs and not enough Indians.
Poverty and love are bad to hide.
He is afraid of his own shadow.
Better late than never.
Better bend than break.
Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad.
Half a loaf is better than no bread.
God who gives the wound gives the salve.
Short prayers reach heaven.
Better something than nothing
A blind hen shall find corn.
Proffered service stinks.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
Those who've had their fingers burned think twice next time"
Children are uncertain comforts but certain cares.
You must not run after two hares at the same time.
First come, first served.
Don't wait for dead mens shoes.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
No one knows where the shoe pinches, but he who wears it.
The more you stroke the cat's tail, the more he raises his back.
”Better is the enemy of good.”
Better be alone than in bad company.
Don't wash your dirty linen in public; It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
Good riding at two anchors, men have told, for if the one fails, the other may hold.
You might as well try to hold an eel by the tail.
Every hair casts its shadow.
You will be judged by the standards you judge others by 
Judge not, that ye be not judged
It is not wise to open old wounds.
Nothing is new.
Still waters run deep.
Learn to walk before you can run.
If you do good, good will be done to you.
One bird in hand is worth two in the bush.
One bird in hand is better than ten on the roof"
Eggs and oaths are soon broken.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Even a blind hen sometimes finds a grain of corn.
A good marksman may miss.
Every man is the blacksmith of his own happiness.
Every man thinks his own geese swans.
Every bird must hatch its own eggs.
The covetous man is good to none and worst to himself.
Give him an inch and he will take a yard.
Each day brings it own bread.
A golden key opens any gate but that of heaven.
It is good fishing in troubled waters.
Can't see the wood for the trees.
Don't throw out the baby with the bath water.
None so deaf as those who will not hear.
You can catch more flies with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
"When in Rome do as the Romans."
Strike while the iron is hot.
His own desire leads every man.
Everything in its season.
He who has fingers of iron, the devil shall flee. 
You need to be strong to beat the devil.
He must have a lot of butter in order to stop a mans mouth. 
Money buys a man's silence.
A king's favour is no inheritance.
First come, first served.
Pride comes before fall.
Honey is sweet, but the bees sting.
One must step back to take a good leap.
Good blood always shows itself.
It's by the head that the cow gives the milk.
Like will to like.
Let the buyer have a thousand eyes for the seller wants only one.
For what thou canst do thyself, rely not on another.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
Physician, heal thyself!
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Make a virtue out of necessity.
While the grass grows the steed starves.
"New brooms sweep clean."
A stick is easy found to beat a dog.
An old dog barks not in vain.
Needs must go when the devil drives.
It will all be the same a hundred years hence.
Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly, they are ravening wolves.
Hard words break no bones.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch.
Praise the day at dawn.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
Like mother, like daughter.
Still waters run deep.
He says the moon is made of cheese.
Misfortune comes on horseback and goes away on foot.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
Don’t put all the eggs in the same basket.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
As you make your bed, so you must lie.
Like father, like son.
Time and tide waits for no man.
Time is money.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Honesty is the best policy.
A fair face and a foul heart.