Give your friend your blood and money.
Never justify yourself.
Your enemies won't believe you and your friends won't need it.
A needle in a haystack.
Slower than a turtle.
Farther than Pleiades.
Follows more than a shadow.
Unity is power.
Leave evil, it will leave you.
That hole in the dress is bigger than anyone can fix.
Be aware of the idiot, for he is like an old dress.
Every time you patch it, the wind will tear it back again.
Beware the levelheaded when he is angry.
Heavier than a mountain
More fearful than an ostrich.
Avoid the company of a liar.
And if you can't avoid him, don't believe him.
Sit where you are welcomed and helped, and don't sit where you are not welcomed.
More generous than Hatim.
Be careful of your enemy once and of your friend a thousand times, for a double crossing friend knows more evil.
Beware of he whose goodness you can't ask for and whose evil you can't be protected from.
Do good to people and you'll enslave their hearts.
The best answer comes from the man who isn't angry.
dig a well then close the well, but do not unemploy a worker
The most praised form of eloquence  is silence when speech isn't wise.
You need a brother, without one you're like a person rushing to battle without a weapon.
Pick the lesser of the two evils.
The ropeman got mixed with the archer.
The end of life is death.
The end of the grape cluster.
Work for the engagement of your daughter, but don't work for the engagement of your son.
The man who wanted to milk the male goat failed.
Your brother is who gives you honest advice.
Your brother is who's honest with you, not who believes you.
Closer than the carotid artery.
If one of the two adversaries came to you with a pumped eye, don't judge for him until you see the other, for maybe he got both of his eyes pumped.
If you wanted obedience command with what is possible.
If the people wanted life, destiny better respond.
Be generous to a generous person and you'd win him, be generous to a mean person and he'd rebel on you.
If there's no choice but advice, ask for the decisiveness of an advisor or the advice of a decisive person.
If two thieves quarreled, what was stolen emerges.
Shall the sheep go astray, they will be led by the ill goat.
If you speak the word it shall own you, and if you don't you shall own it.
The smarter you get the less you speak.
If you wishask, wishask for more.
If the water is available you need not clean up with sand.
If you mentioned the wolf you better prepare the stick.
If you mentioned the wolf you better watch out.
If you see the fangs of the lions, don't think the lion is smiling.
The mistake of the scientist leads to mistakes by many people.
If you hear a person talking good about things that aren't in you, don't be sure that he wouldn't also say bad things about things that aren't in you.
Advice sharpens a rusty opinion.
If you are to hit then make it painful, because you'll get one  blame eitherways.
If you oppress who is below you then you won't be safe from the punishment of who is above you.
When the reason is known, there will be no more wonder.
If you reach for the highest of ideals, you shouldn't settle for less than the stars
If the heart is empty, the rest will soon abandon you too.
If you can't reward then you should thank.
Rudeness knows no bounds of shame.
If patience is bitter then its result is sweet.
If talk is silver then silence is gold.
If you have an opinion, be determined, the only faulty opinion is to hesitate.
If an eagle  is no good, cut its feathers off.
If a wind blows, ride it 
If you have no shame then do whatever you want.
Stinginess demeans the value of man.
Cheaper than dates  in Basra.
Send a wise man and don't advise him.
Higher than the heavens.
Smoother than a breeze.
Every person is observant to the flaws of others and blind to his own flaws.
Plant each day and you will eat.
More arrogant than a peacock.
Heard the question wrong, answered wrong.
Faster than death.
Faster than thoughts.
Protect your brother's privacy for what he knows of you.
Meeting death is better than escaping from it.
A lion on me and an ostrich in war.
Faster than lightning.
Faster than the wind.
Faster than eye blink.
Faster than an arrow.
For smart people, signs can replace words.
More jinxed than AlBassoos.
A problem is solved when it gets tougher.
Bolder than a rooster.
Has a better voice than a pigeon.
The hardest fight is fighting your anger
The greatest poverty is the lack of intelligence.
Thank who gives you and give who thanks you.
More famous than a fire on a mountain.
Have patience and you'll get what you want.
More enduring than a donkey
Smart people are blessed.
Purer than a tear.
Fixing what you have is better than waiting to get what you don't have.
More skillful than a silk worm.
Laugh, and the world laughs with you weep, and you weep alone
Beat the iron while it is hot.
If your greetings had not preceded your words, your bones before your flesh would I have eaten.
You lost a sheep that you made a wolf its guardian, didn't you know that the wolf is a thief
more lost than the moon in the winter.
The hardest the problem is the closer it is to be solved.
Tighter than a needle's eye.
Seek to get.
ask for the knowledge that would be useful to you, would keep you from harm and shame, then elevate you.
Seek education from the cradle to the grave.
Seek education even if it takes you to China.
More greedy than Asha'ab.
The purest people are the ones with good manners.
He is more obedient to him than his own right hand.
Longer than the winter's night.
longer than a separation day.
More vicious than a snake.
Darker than the night.
Prepare for the dog of evil, a dog as strong.
More fair than scales.
The one who knows God most, is the one who accepts whatever God has given him.
know your friend then leave him.
The best place in the world is on the back of a horse, and the best friend in all time is a book.
Only your grand child is dearer to you than your child.
Better be single all your life than be a widow for a month.
Give me some good luck and throw me in the sea.
The wisest is the one who can forgive.
Tie your camel and rely on God.
I taught him archery everyday, and when he got good at it he throw an arrow at me.
Do good and throw it in sea.
Among the blind, the oneeyed man is king.
More treacherous than a wolf.
more flirty than Imru' alQais.
Lies are the plague of speech.
Bias is the plague of the openion.
Forgetting is the plague of knowledge.
Too much humility brings humiliation.
More corrupt then mites.
The best jihad  is saying the truth in the face of a dictator.
The best generousity is giving without being asked.
Actions speak louder than words.
Uglier than magic.
Uglier than an ogre.
Uglier than a pig.
The monkey in his mother's eye is a gazzelle.
More hideous than the disappearance of good fortune
Uglier than a monkey.
More hideous than words with no action.
Moderation in spending is half of all living.
Closer than the tongue to the teeth .
Your relatives  are more deserving of your generosity.
Tougher than a stone.
Tougher than a rock.
The envious person is the least happy.
Eat less to sleep more.
Older than you by a day, more knowledgeable than you by a year
More silent  than the earth.
Faker than a mirage.
Burial is the way to honor the dead.
Distance yourself from every dirtiness.
Time has eaten and drank upon it.
Eats more than a fire.
Eats more than a whale.
Better eat and praise God than eat and stay silent.
Friendlier than a dog.
My feet took me to my death.
Good health is a crown on the heads of the healthy that only the ill can see  Ali ibn abi Talib
a mother is a school, preparing her is like preparing a good nation.
The one who controls himself most, is the one who can keep his own secrets.
Safer than the pigeons of Mekkah
More secure than the nose of a lion.
your brother is that who consoles you.
hands are loans.
A mosquito can make the lion's eye bleed.
The death of a coward comes from over him
A horse may trip.
Life is to have a belief and fight for it.
A sinking man will try to catch any rope.
Allah is kind, and he likes those who are kind too.
God gives time but doesn't ignore .
If something increased more than it should, it will turn againest itself
Tomorrow is close if you wait for it.
If meat is expensive then patience is cheap.
When your son grows up, become his brother.
If you're a wind then I'm a hurricane.
If you're a liar, you better have a good memory.
If no agreement, then separation.
There's always tomorrow.
the key to all things is determination.
I'm already drowning so why should I fear getting wet
I'm up to it and to every great thing.
Human thinks and God plans.
Your nose is a part of you even if it was cut .
You are striking cold iron.
The first step to lead, is to consult.
A tree starts with a seed.
Anger begins with madness and ends with regret.
As soon as he started, he went far.
The one who should be forgiven, is the one who's able to punish.
More vulnerable than a spider's web.
More desperate than a drowning person.
Avoid what may require an apology.
days are countries
More awake than a wolf 
The worst emotion is envy
Close the door from which the wind blows and relax.
The carpenter's door is loose.
He sold his vinyard and bought a squeezer.
With carefulness you realize your opportunity.
With rapport and offsprings.
Said to congratulate newlyweds.
The stingy has a big porch and little morality.
The miser's riches are poverty and his kitchen is poor
With the same  mouth the lies are exposed
Seeing a client is in itself a trade
as far as the heavenssky from the earth
Distance is disaffection.
Some forgiveness is weakness.
Those who are far from the eye are far from the heart.
Men are judged by their strength of their opinion and with hopesdreams money awaits
I take pride in my accomplishments and not in those of my ancestors
The house of a tyrant is a ruin
If you do charity, your house will be always rich
In haste there is regret and in taking time there is peacesafety
Continuous improvement is better than being good
ExperiencesExperimenting has no end and one always gains from them
Experimenting is the great science.
Winds blow counter to what ships desire.
Planning is half of living
Avoiding mistakes is better than apologizing after
You left them lost and bewildered.
Get together like brother, and keep each other in check like strangers
Get together like brothers, and work together like strangers.
Arrogance over the arrogant is modesty.
Speak, for God spoke to Moses
Wealth comes like a turtle and goes away like a gazelle.
You reap what you sow
Paradise without people is not worth living in.
Paradise is under mothers' feet
Ignorance is the worst acquaintance.
Ignorance is the death of the living.
Hunger is an infidel.
Falseness lasts an hour, and truth lasts till the end of time.
Need excavates the trick.
An unshod mocks a shoe.
Love is blind.
Loving your country is pious.
Ink on paper.
The rope of lies is short.
Went to Haj while pilgrims are coming back Refers to people who are late in doing things.
Movement is a blessing.
Thought he was a great catch, turns out he is a shackle.
Envy is a weight not placed by its bearer.
Good manners is the greatest friend.
The pebble comes from the mountain.
put your head between these heads and shout cut our heads off.
Meaning "Would you do whatever anyone else is doing even if it means your life" .
Luck in the sky and brains in the ground.
Keeping a secret is a commitment
Stupidity is a disease without a medicine.
The living is more important than the dead.
The only trick the incapable has, are his tears.
A servant who has two masters, lies to one of them.
The deserter is the brother of the murderer.
Dissent and you will be known.
Oppose your affection to find rationality.
Smoke of the neighbours renders you blind
Money is a Cure      
Blood can never turn into water.
Life is the Faithful's prison and the nonbelievr's paradise  
Life is made of two days.
One which is sweet and the other is bitter.
The cure for fate is patience.
A good advice is part of the Religion.
Remind the youngster of his next life.
The one without a sword gets humiliated.
His fault is besides him   
He who does not know the falcon would grill it.
He who does not know you is not informed of you.
The idea came after the drunkness passed away.
Opinion comes before the bravery of the braves.
I saw people tending to the one who has money
An excuse is sometime more ugly than a guilt
Your lord is the lord of hearts.
The stupid might have wanted to help you, but ended up hurting you.
Rima came back to her old habits
A throw without a thrower.
Our parents planted so we ate, and we plant for our children to eat.
They planted so we ate, and we plant so they would eat.
The village's piper does not exhilarate.
Consult the wise and do not disobey him.
It's a hardship that will go away.
Evil in people does not go away when they get buried.
Suspicion is the sister of the wrong.
I cured my self but I amputated my nose in the process.
Complaining is the weak's weapon.
Complaining to someone other than God is disgraceful.
Laughing for no reason is rude.
Beating the dead is a sin.
He beat me and cried, and went before me to complain.
Either live with dignity or die generous.
A bird in the hand is better than ten on a tree      
The bite of a Lion is better than an envies look                 
The mind is a decoration.
Life is but one and God is but one.
In perils, you know your friends                                       
An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
The eye does not become higher than the eyebrow.
The excuse of the absent is with him.
The price of the expensive is within him.
A stranger is blind even when he sees.
Don't delay today's work until tomorrow.
Don't eat your bread on someone else's table.