Water is medicine to shit. 
Water will stand in a hollow
Fire and water are good servants, but bad masters
A fire's belly is never full. 
Water is stronger than spirits, it topples even large mills. 
The earth is hard, God strong. 
The land gives us bread to eat. 
The ground will support its little creatures. 
If the sea is rich, the land is poor. 
Let him go to sea who has not learned to know his God elsewhere. 
The water will pay back its debts. 
The sea will pay back its debts. 
What the sea takes it also returns. 
The sea gives, the sea takes. 
Manure is a farmer's gold. 
Oat's words: If I'm sown into rich soil, I will dress him with cloth. 
Sow beans in the mud and they'll grow like wood.
Without manure he growing grain will not yield a good crop. 
Don't let rice fields lay fallow; an inch of soil is an inch of gold. 
Cold teaches you to run. 
Frost wants clothes. 
Cold forces a man to run alongside his sleigh as it climbs on the sleigh itself. 
Sweaty is the man who has skied, thirsty the woman who has ground corn into flour. 
Women and cats have hardy spirits. 
A cuckoo calls its name. 
The wolf is the dog's uncle. 
A man is known by his horse. 
Men have lice, dogs have fleas. 
What has no tongue pulls a fool's load. 
The pig is the poor man's saving bank. 
A sheep will eat a hay load even through a bore hole. 
An ermine leaves more tracks on a wintry night than a mare with her colts in the summer. 
The swallow summer brings, the swallow summer takes. 
When the crow sings early it means warm weather. 
A wagtail kicks the ice. 
The east wind won't cease before it rains and a wife's scolding won't cease before she cries 
The northerly wind spends the night next to his wife. 
A fox has a fine life: northerly wind and sunshine. 
A north-westerly wind is the sky's broom. 
The Southeasterly will drive the fish from the sea, the Northeasterly from the pot, and the Northwesterly from the spoon. 
A northerly wind brings with it fair weather, an easterly wind rain. 
When it rains and the sun shines...
In this weather a good man would not force his dog to go out, but a bad man will even his wife. 
If the fog is rising, it will rain; if the fog is falling, the weather will be fine. 
Morning is as precious as gold. 
Evening will gather the cattle. 
A day is never so long that night does not follow. 
What is done in the dark is seen in the day. 
Rain in spring is as precious as oil 
April and May the keys of the year
Spring showers bring life, autumn showers ruin. 
Days grow longer, threads get shorter. 
Gruel and peas are cooked in the autumn, watery gruel in the spring. 
An early calf and a late lamb fare best. 
The chicken are counted in the autumn. 
Wish that summer would come along with flies so that even a poor man would have friends. 
Wen der Herrgott nass macht, den macht er auch wieder trocken
An age to an age is not a brother 
The farmer is the year's boy. 
Mild days in January will be paid for in March. 
A cold May and a wet June fill the cellars and granaries. 
Christmas and Midsummer match. 
What rains before Midsummer rains into the grain bin. 
If Finland's Katherine 
Martin 
God has made us all. 
Not a hair is broken without the will of God. 
Man proposes, God disposes
The sun rises and the rain falls for all 
There is enough salve in God's horn for everyone. 
Whom God will help no man can hinder 
He that sends mouths, sends meat
The strongest cord is made of three strands. 
God gives, God takes. 
He who has no friend has God 
Yesterday is lived through, today is lived up to this moment. 
God does not burden man with a load greater than he can carry. 
God's mill grinds slowly yet surely. 
The gods see through everything. 
God is where he was.
Wisdom begins with the fear of God. 
Everyone will find salvation in his own faith. 
Don't force God into a tree, since you won't even get him down by begging. 
Live as if you were to die tomorrow, work as if you were to live to a hundred. 
God gives us hands, but does not build bridges for us
The man has a paddle in his hand, but God guides the boat. 
A wonder lasts but nine days
The parish clerk and the rooster live off their big mouths. 
Don't do as the priest does but as he commands. 
The closer you live to a church, the harder it is to be there on time. 
The closer you are to the church, the closer you are to hell. 
The day will dawn even without the rooster 
That shalbe, shalbe
Who is fated to be hanged will not die in the water. 
Where can a man flee from his given days. 
Talk of the wolf and his tail appears
You live according to your livelihood, you row according to the water. 
The cow with calves cannot avoid giving birth. 
A goat must find its food from where it's tied. 
No use striving against Fate
What you don't have the strength to carry, you don't have to lift up. 
A wise child will not live long. 
The most fortunate of all is he who dies in the cradle 
A mighty power in Moscow said he who has no horse will travel by foot. 
It's an old Swedish law that he who has no horse will travel by foot. 
The sun cannot be hidden by a hand 
Whether I pull or push, it won't get better. 
When we are gone, let happen what may
You can't place your worries in a basket. 
Even a blind chicken will find grain. 
A blind man may perchance hit the mark
I today, you tomorrow
Fortune is never bought. 
Fortune is never taken. 
Fortune and glass soon break. 
Fortune and unfortune are neighbours. 
Trouble never comes crying 
Evil comes even without predicting. 
No one has gone ahead of misfortune. 
One is not so soon healed as hurt
Not every day is there a wedding, nor are all days revelries. 
When misfortune arrives, it comes through doors and windows. 
Evil seldom goes alone
If we go forward we die; if we go backward we die; better go forward and die 
Out of the frying pan into the fire
He would fall on his back and break his nose
A cat lands on all fours. 
You should not be born pretty but lucky. 
A man must live according to his fortune. 
You can't swim far against the current nor walk fast up a hill. 
The man is at sea with his fortune, on the waves with his luck. 
A fool has a fool's luck. 
Friends may meet, but mountains never greet
All roads lead to Rome
Three times is good for everything. 
Keep everything in your mind, but forget your dream sack. 
Sleep is brother to death
Broken pieces are a good luck sign. 
Time is the oldest. 
Nature passes nurture
There is no washing a blackamoor white
He's the rock, the oak, not to be wind-shaken 
Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots?
The dog is always up to dog's trickery. 
Weather can't be put in a pot. 
You cannot make a silk purse of a sow's ear
You can't get blood out of a stone
When ginger is made from chicken shit it's pretty fine.
You can't get silk from shit.
You can't get cloth from chicken shit. 
A line inscribed in water
Building upon the sand
The eye can't take. 
No field grows by looking, only by ploughing. 
He does not kill the beast who only looks at it. 
A carefree boy without a horse: if you don't feed a horse, you can't ride it. 
If you are worried by the rain you can always plunge into the sea
Once is as good as never. 
One stone cannot grind. 
One hand will not clasp
The frog burst when it tried to make itself as big as a bull
Don't lay an egg larger than your ass. 
A drop does not fill the sea. 
A short hymn is quickly sung. 
There is the sea - and who shall drain it dry? 
A small solotnikke 
Small but peppery. 
The small reach far. 
Small rain lays a great dust
Who begins with little finishes with plenty. 
Drop by drop the sea is drained
The last straw breaks the camel's back
Rivers begin from small streams. 
From little spark may burst a mighty flame
He that steal a pin, will steal a better thing
If you put one finger in the shit, be prepared to put in your whole hand. 
Men trip not on mountains, they stumble over stones 
One sheep follows another
A fool may throw a stone into a well, which a hundred wise men cannot pull out
One does bad, nine heads carry. 
The wrong penny takes the straight penny. 
The rotten apple spoils his companions
Don't make an ox out of a fly. 
Great cry and little wool
Penny-wise, pound-foolish
You see the penny's hole but not the larger coin's hole. 
One pebble doesn't make a floor 
It is difficult for one man to act a play. 
You can't get two hides from one bull 
Mit der Nadel gräbt man keinen Brunnen
Einen Bären schlägt man nicht mit einem Strochhalm
You can't kill a wolf with a nail. 
A camel will go through the eye of a needle before a rich man enters heaven. 
One cow for the flies and one woman for the doorstep. 
Don't kill mosquitoes with a club. 
To shoot a sparrow with a large cannon 
Eagles do not catch flies 
A bird is named after its song, a man after his habits. 
A bird is known by its flight. 
One knows a man by his trade even if it is drinking beer 
Like knife, like wife. 
The cat on the rock is like the horse in the barn. 
He who takes care of his cat takes care of his horse. 
It's not the mirror's fault if your nose is crooked. 
It is soon apparent which trees will bear fruit
A cold hand, a warm heart. 
The liar is the thief's brother. 
Quick at meal, quick at work
If he eats a lot, he also works hard. 
Once a knave, ever a knave
If you are good at one thing, you are also good at another. 
Have a care of a silent dog and still water
He who looks upwards thinks downwards. 
To kiss the child for love of the nurse
Don't be all sugar, the world will swallow you; nor be all pepper either, it will spit you out. 
Look like the innocent flower, but be the serpent under it 
Licks in the front and bites from behind. 
The face is the image of the soul, and the eyes are its interpreter
The heart is weeping and the mouth is smiling 
The clothes make the man. 
Fine feathers make fine birds
What it looks like, that's what it tastes like. 
You can go without food, but not without clothes. 
Even a cat covers its ass with its tail. 
Even a dog covers its ass with its tail. 
A bird is known by its feathers. 
A dark man, a soft heart. 
Dark hair, gentle heart, blond hair, hardened heart. 
A beard does not grow on the bad, chin whiskers on the idle. 
A kiss without a beard is like a coffee without cream. 
An old goat is never the more reverend for his beard
Looks are deceptive. 
No rose without a thorn
The beauty is but a skin deep; within is filth an putrefaction
A pretty pod, but a worm inside. 
The fairest silk is soonest stained
All that glitters is not gold
Not all who wear trousers are men. 
All are not hunters that blow the horn
There are a lot of spotted dogs in the world. 
There are more maids than Maukin and more men than Michael
A wolf in sheep's clothing
All are good maids, but whence come the bad wives?
Not all clouds give rain. 
He doesn't shit where he squats. 
The hunger is not as large as it's made to be. 
The distress is not as large as it's made to be. 
Beads about the neck, and the devil in the heart 
In sight one is like silk; out of sight one is like a wolf
When the plating goes, the base will show. 
Wonders will never cease.
The world is like a dancing girl; it dances to everyone for a little while 
Misery on entering this world, misery on casting away your life. 
Where there is life, there is misfortune. 
A man's age is long, the world's shore wide. 
Better short and fun than long and bad. 
Grand it has to be even if you live a day less. 
The life of man is as spotted as woodpecker's coat 
A pitcher that goes oft to the well is broken at last
A group is composed of a motley. 
No two trees are alike, even in a forest. 
Die fünf Finger der Hand gleichen nicht einander
They are different men who wash corpses, and different men who bury them. 
One a man, the other a lad. 
There are seven types of fools on this earth: fools for food, drink, work, laziness, money, starving and fools for fighting. 
Everyone lives in their own way. 
Not all trees end up being masts. 
Every man to his trade
They agree like cats and dogs
Don't put a fire to the tow. 
Eat bread or the bread will eat you. 
No joy without sorrow
Who sings in the morning, cries in the evening. 
Too much laughter discovers folly
A fool is known by his laugh. 
A fool laughs at nothing. 
Sorrow is born of exessive joy 
Great griefs are mute. 
He who conceals his grief dies of it 
After a good cry, your heart is lighter. 
The frost drives the pig home. 
The hunger drives the pig home. 
Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood
A baited cat may grow as fierce as a lion
A hungry man, an angry man
Play, women and wine undo men laughing
If a hungry louse finds flesh, it will bite through to the bone. 
Necessity knows no law
Necessity is the mother of invention
When the bread is finished, then pies are eaten. 
Hunger teaches you to be a witch. 
Misery will teach you to pray. 
When times are hard even the male will cub
Baghdad is not remote to a lover
Beauty opens all doors
Where there is butter there are flies
The hand to the nail and the heart to the beloved 
A stomach must be served a lifetime. 
The devil will bring him heirs, since the Lord takes only his soul. 
Where the carcass is the ravens will gather
The path through the turnip field is the straightest. 
Love and a cough 
Love is blind
Lovers [can] even live on a bare rock. 
Love takes half of a wise man's mind, but it takes everything from a madman. 
Love is mad
A cat dreams of mice
What is in your dreams at night is what is in your head during the day. 
Hope that the poor benefit, the ill get better. 
Finally an end to this stony bread, but when will this spring day end. 
To the place where the heart loves the feet will carry you
The emptier the stomach, the sweeter the bread. 
Hunger is the best sauce
A hungry devil will even eat a fly. 
When hungry, any food is fit for a while
A pike will even eat a frog after swimming across a large lake, a man will even marry a wicked woman after being without one for a week . 
The hungry man farts, the fed man belches. 
The spirit cannot live without eating. 
You may become poorer but not thinner. 
The hired man hoes as much as the master feeds [him]. 
If you want to ride, then feed the horse. 
Ride the horse with oats, not with a whip. 
An empty sack cannot stand upright
No one's mouth is made of birch bark. 
The mouth knows what is good, the tongue tastes what is sweet. 
The stomach needs to be filled. 
The stomach is not a glass bottle, whatever you put in it. 
The stomach is an eye easily blinded 
Appetite grows as you eat. 
The stomach grants no debts. 
Butter does not spoil the gruel. 
With butter goes even iron nail heads. 
With butter goes even old mittens. 
If there is enough bread, no man will go hungry. 
Beans plead to be cooked, meat asks of the fire. 
Raw meat fattens, raw fish makes lean. 
What is salty ties the heart. 
Salt doesn't injure the heart, nor does tar turn the mind. 
Nothing beats an elk's muzzle, a bear's paw or a burbot's liver. 
A horse's milk has more fat. 
Better to have too much than to lack. 
The soup is eaten as cooked. 
Food is prepared swiftly in the hands of the good mistress. 
Cleanliness is half the food. 
Death will wait by your bed if you go to sleep in the evening without food. 
At the same time to eat, but work [go] whenever one has time. 
Drink the liquor, not your mind. 
Even a chicken drinks even though it does not piss. 
A fish wants to swim. 
Liquor revives a man, but beer gives him strength. 
Ever drunk, ever dry
When a dog learns to lick the quern, it won't change its habits. 
First a man takes a swig, then the swig takes the man. 
The first drink to sorrow, the second to a good cause, and the third to step in between the first two. 
It must start raining since the pig is carrying a straw [in his mouth]. 
Liquor does what beer doesn't even know. 
There is a man in every drunkard, but none in a fool. 
What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals
Get a man drunk if you wish to find out his true nature. 
The drunkard is up to his knees in the sea. 
It's good to be drunk: no poverty nor pain. 
Last night there were five pairs of oxen and now there isn't even the tip of calf. 
Last night there were five pairs of oxen and now there isn't even the tip of horn. 
What you do when drunk, you answer for when sober. 
More folk drown in a glass of liquor than in the sea. 
Play, women and wine undo men laughing.
The cardplayer will see the gates of hell. 
Better to do a little right than a lot wrong. 
A safe conscience makes a sound sleep
Evil makes one frightened. 
A good name is better than riches
Better a poor man's honour than a rich man's money. 
Better to beg than steal. 
It is better to die with honor than to live with shame
Better a handful of honour than a lap full of shame. 
Do well and have well
The best road is the straightest. 
How you live, that's also how you are talked about. 
His name will live forever
One should feel shame before good, fear before evil. 
He who follows the dung beetle ends up in a dunghill. 
One sows, another reaps.
Asses carry the oats and horses eat them
The good-hearted has a heavy load. 
Kindness leads one to be a whore, spite keeps one a virgin. 
Don't put a candle under the basket. 
When you fall, you won't fall lower than the ground. 
Not even the poor are denied great thoughts. 
A fruit-bearing tree bends 
Who has a bell around his neck has his head down. 
Self-praise is no praise
That's thanks for you when you thank yourself. 
Self-praise comes aye stinking ben
Large words will not stick in the throat. 
Boasting costs nothing. 
Don't boast until you are finished. 
Pride goes before the fall
He who humbles himself is elevated. 
The ox lives while the knife is being sharpened. 
A tree will break before it reaches heaven. 
Blood is thicker than water
Every tree has its own roots. 
Never overlook a small wound or a poor family member, both can grow in size.
A small wound and a poor relative have to be heeded. 
A man's enemies are they of his own household 
A distant relative is like the sixth water the churn is rinsed with. 
Relatives are dear when they live afar and seldom call in. 
Water is a brother's mercy, husk is a sister's mercy. 
The man gets a new wife, but the children don't get a mother. 
Take heed of a stepmother; the very name of her suffices
May your father die, not your mother 
A married man is a woman's man, a bachelor is a mother's boy. 
The night bird defeats the day bird. 
I can tell a sweet birch from the other trees and my mother-in-law from the other village women. 
Like mother, like daughter
As the old cock crows, so crows the young
What the mother is singing, her young will be chirping. 
It is the wolf that teaches its young to howl. 
People who come from hell are not afraid of hot ashes
One evil rises out of another
A bog pine takes after its kind. 
Like tree, like offshoots. 
An apple does not fall far from the tree
You can't get figs from thistles
Don't look for goose eggs in a magpie's nest, nor a pig's head in a poor man's pot. 
A black hen may bring forth white eggs
I myself am a man, though my family members are wolves. 
A hardworking mother raises lazy children. 
What the father collects, the son divides. 
The fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's teeth are set on edge
A centipede though dead will not fall 
There is no head so small that it does not have some sense in it. 
Little pitchers have long ears
The squeaky wheel gets the grease
When a child gets what he wants, he keeps his mouth shut. 
A child's heart and hands are soon filled. 
A child laughs after having eaten and cries after having had no food. 
A good child vomits, a bad one shits a lot. 
A bath whisk rears children, the wind chickens. 
Protect a child from fire and water until he's seven years old. 
The horse coddles its young, the wife her stomach's folk 
Mother's rod is woollen, a stranger's rod is bloody 
A mother's lap is softer than a feather. 
Und ist eine Mutter noch so arm, so giebt sie ihrem Kinde warm
A cheerless home without master or mistress, though the day is sunny. 
It's best for a child to live with good parents. 
A mother's love will bring you up from the bottom of the sea. 
The parent's heart in the child, the child's in the cold stone. 
He who heeds his parents kneads a whole troughful of bread for himself 
Who is not struck by words is not struck by a cane. 
Better to see a weeping child than a weeping mother. 
A child should speak only when the cat is laying eggs and the chicken is pissing. 
Woe to the kingdom whose king is a child
He that loves his children corrects them well
A thrashing will break no bones. 
Gold must be hammered, and the child must be beaten
A rod does not make a child worse. 
The mare makes a lot of colts, but dies with a collar around its neck. 
Children beget children to the nuisance of their parents. 
Children are poor men's riches
He that hath one hog, makes him fat; and he that hath one son, makes him a fool
The only son and a cottage ram, neither one is a source of happiness. 
Better five content [cows] than six hungry. 
A girl from four, a wife from five, and a mother from six. 
The skin on a woman's stomach is made of seven sheep skins. 
For nine weeks keep a plank for her corpse under the back of a woman who has given birth. 
The wife and the oven stay at home. 
The mistress is the first in the house. 
Hold a woman by her word or a burbot by its tail, and empty-handed you will always be. 
Don't gabble if you don't lay eggs. 
Laughable are the ways of women, but never those of men. 
A woman's advice is but slender, yet he that refuses it is a madman
No horse will die of its sweat nor woman of her tears. 
This world has been spoilt with women and wolves. 
Where the devil can't go, he sends a bad woman. 
When three women get together, it's a village meeting.
Two women together is a small marketplace, three a fair. 
Coffee is served when it is hot and girls when they are young. 
Früh aufstehen und jung freiren, soll niemand gereuen
Every Jack has his Jill
Seigneur sans dame, ce n'est que vent
Better to be a spinster than a young whore. 
A widow's love is like reheated potato soup. 
The good men reject me and the bad men I won't take. 
Lice eat you and the world hates you. 
If the pig goes, then the trough remains and many a muncher 
A veil brings worries, linen low spirits.  
A bridal veil brings half a worry, a wife's headdress a steady flow. 
The medicine for hate is separation 
Better to be half hanged than ill wed
It is better to be a good man's whore than a bad one's wife. 
It is bad with the bad [i.e. the woman] but worse without the bad 
The devil will be busy between the newly-weds for seven years. 
Men are given two joyous days: one when he gains a wife and the other when he is rid of her. 
The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life 
A house without woman and firelight is like a body without soul or sprite 
A healthy wife for the husband, a rich sister for the brother. 
The brother wishes for a rich sister, the man for a healthy wife. 
The anvil fears no blows
An old wife grows young with a good man, but a maiden grows old with a bad man. 
A good wife is a goodly prize
You won't know someone unless you have eaten a sack of salt together. 
Marriage halves our griefs, doubles our joys, and quadruples our expenses
New meat begets new appetite.
A wife isn't a kantele to hang on the wall 
Teach your grandmother to suck eggs
Live and learn
The old are wise, but powerless. 
The old are feable, but the young are weak. 
The old are feable, but the young are stupid. 
Reason has no age 
An old dog will learn no tricks
An old fox is never first to be snared by a fox trap. 
The mother-in-law does not remember that she has been a daughter-in-law
Everyone ages, but pray to God that you never become a cripple. 
To have one foot in the grave
Wenn der Wolf alt wird, reiten ihn die Krähen
The old man's day, hardship's day. 
Age breeds aches
Everybody wants to live long, but nobody wants to grow old. 
Old age is a sickness in itself
Old men are twice children
When a child stumbles, the devil cushions his fall; when a grown-up falls, it jumps on top. 
Older and wiser
Don't mock an old dog too long, it'll bite you straight to the bone. 
An old man is not to be laughed at 
You can mock the old but never the cripple. 
When your elders are talking, children should be silent. 
Offering medicine to the old is like fixing an old boot. 
Health is above wealth
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
Good medicine always tastes bitter
Your wound has hairs of the same dog that bit you. 
A yawn flies from mouth to mouth as a squirrel flies from tree to tree. 
The doctor is never killed because the patient dies 
It is a good doctor who follows his own advice
The sick want everything. 
An illness feeds but does not fatten. 
No illness makes hair prettier. 
Though the sore be healed, yet a scar may remain
Mischiefs come by the pound but go away by ounces
Better the grave than a life of want 
An ill stake stands longest
Lange Krankheit, sicher Tod
One day closer to death and wife-taking. 
No one here lives to be the pillar that bears the world. 
Life is short and shitty like a child's shirt. 
The young die when their years come to an end, but the old die from necessity. 
The youth's skin will last on the hayrack. 
Death spares neither small nor great
He who is born cannot avoid death. 
No heralds in the grave
Death comes to kings and masters alike. 
No man lives twice. 
Death does not blow a horn on arrival. 
I know the place where I was born, the place where I grew up, but not the place where I will die. 
Everyone knows when and where they were born, but no one knows the time or place they will die. 
There is no one so old who does not believe that he will live a year more. 
Today gold, tomorrow soil. 
Today red, tomorrow dead
Nothing is compulsory except death, and not even that as long as you breathe. 
There is a remedy for everything but death
Weeping does not keep you from death. 
It is only the dead who don't return
Many have entered the Underworld, but none have returned. 
When the oil is exhausted the lamp goes out 
Besser es fresse mich ein Wolf als ein Schaff
You were born once, you will die once; no one dies twice. 
No one can be sold to death by force. 
Death has not learned to take what is offered to it. 
It doesn't take what is passed to it or grab what is offered. 
Death arrives uninvited. 
Honor blossoms on the grave. 
One year's joy for the married, two years' mourning for the dead. 
Life brings pearls, death graves. 
Dead men don't bite
Dead men tell no tales
Nothing can be gained from the dead. 
A tree lies where it falls. 
A long sack is needed when waiting for someone to die. 
A candle, by consuming itself, gives light to others 
The king is dead, long live the king.
Everyone will make sure their sack is filled. 
Every miller is ready to convey water to his own mill
Everyone is closest to himself. 
Your own life is more valuable than another's. 
Your own hide is the most valuable of all. 
Everyone's shirt is closer to his own skin. 
Everyone [takes care] for his own and God for everything . 
Everyone blows into his own spoon. 
Everyone talks into his own sack. 
Everyone has his own worries. 
Take with two hands from where you have put with one hand. 
Giving to oneself is better than receiving 
God helps those who help themselves
Better to go yourself than give orders to a lazy person. 
Command your man and do it yourself
Self-made is well made. 
Every man is the architect of his own fortune
A burden of one's own choice is not felt
Better an empty purse than borrowed money. 
Borrowed garments never fit well
Better to go to sleep with an empty stomach than wake up in debt. 
Old debt are always new. 
A debt never rots. 
Blessed when received, cursed when paying back. 
A church axe and a iron shovel will pay the pauper's debts. 
Honour the tree that gives you shelter
We are all in the same boat
Even the devil licks his own. 
Do the duty that lies nearest thee
Billy-goats' horns are all one bone. 
One hand washes the other, both will be clean. 
One hand washes another and both wash the face
One for all, all for one. 
Every man seeks his own profit
He who is useless for himself is useless for others
Mind your own business
Don't touch a strange gruel as none of your own groats are in it. 
A whore thanked me, a thief blamed me, but the good person left me in peace. 
He who holds the fire is never thanked. 
Il n'y a point d'homme nécessarie 
No one is indispensable to others 
Nine do not wait for one. 
A fifth wheel on a cart is too much. 
The wolf won't die in front of one gate. 
When everyone spits on it, the stone will get wet. 
Grass grows not upon the highway, nor in the marketplace
Make long stitches and leave the thread slack, so we get to the next house quicker. 
The cobbler and the tailor ruin the house. 
Narrow is the fisherman's table. 
A stranger though he has a bed will return home. 
The dog will find his way back home. 
The serpent knows his own hole. 
Every cock is brave on his own dunghill
When the mouse laughs at the cat, there is a hole. 
In its own nest even the crow will pick the vulture's eyes. 
Nobody is a prophet in his own country
Water afar does not quench a fire at hand
The further away the forest is, the more trees there are. 
A near neighbor is better than a distant cousin 
Ein Nachbar in der Nähe ist besser als ein Bruder in der Fern
Many have died in their homes. 
God, take me wherever you will as long as it's not my own home. 
The fly says:'The world is before and behind' =it is at home everywhere 
Pain is felt by its owner 
A man pleads anothers's cause with a stick 
A man sleeps very soundly on another man's wound 
The strange master's eyes will not be watery. 
Crush the serpent's head with the hand of an enemy
Your own whip and another's horse. 
Easy to cut a broad strap from the skin of another's back. 
He who gives away his only one will be left with nothing. 
Help another and get yourself in trouble! 
He that takes the devil into the boat must carry him over the sound
When doing good, you're rewarded with shit. 
A helper's wages are paid with evil. 
If you save a rogue from the gallows, he will rob you that same night
To warm a snake in your bosom
Feed a guest with words until the soup is ready. 
A guest won't lay a house to ruin, but indolence will. 
How did the swine's head get into the beggar's sack? 
Everything goes when in dire straits: even ham and eggs. 
Guests and fish stink on the third day
He that comes now and then, shall have a fat hen
Who is given eats much, who takes himself eats more. 
Two tasks for a guest: to arrive and to depart.
Twice is a guest dear: on arrival and on departure. 
Not to give chase to those who leave, nor refuse those who come 
Like guest, like food. 
He who comes uncalled sits unserved
Who arrives uninvited, leaves without asking. 
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth
Don't turn down warm bread or a hot sauna. 
Name not a rope in his house that hanged himself
It is given what is offered. 
The head is the cap's peg. 
Thanks are worthless. 
The danger past, God forgotten
The Moor has done his duty let him go
Ungratefulness is the world's wages. 
Small presents keep up friendship 
The axe goes to the wood whence it borrowed its handle
Don't despise a gift because it is small
Life without a friend is death without a witness
It is good to have friends both in heaven and hell
An old friend is better than two new ones. 
A hundred friends is worth more than a hundred roubles. 
A good friend is worth many relations
An onion with a friend is a lamb 
One enemy is too many, a hundred friends are not enough 
Better to avoid a dumb friend than a wise enemy. 
A hedge between keeps friendship green
A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody
Feed with a spoon and dig the eye out with the handle. 
The best mirror is an old friend
A friend in need is a friend indeed
Barking dogs seldom bite
The tongue is not made of bone. 
The dogs may bark; the caravan goes on
Since the wife barks at strangers, we don't need a dog. 
The dog will bark for his bread.
A dog barks for anyone who feeds him. 
It won't strike who growls. 
It won't bite who threatens. 
He who dies by laughing is buried with a fart. 
See all, say nothing, hold yourself content
Who is angered by play is a fool. 
The master's footsteps make fertile the field. 
The master's footsteps fatten the soil
The master's eye 
A lot of work when being a maid, even more as a mistress. 
When the cat's away, the mice will play
When the shepherd is angry with his flock, he appoints a blind sheep as leader 
A fish begins first to smell at the head
Two kings in one kingdom do not agree well together
Two cocks cannot roost on the same perch. 
There is no accord where every man would be a lord
Too many captains and the ship rolls 
The captain is in his ship like God in heaven. 
Never argue against one who is greater than you 
As long as the gypsy has tongs, he will not burn his fingers
What is it for the driver that the master will drive. 
Who is feared also shows mercy. 
One cannot force a dog to hunt 
Even a pig falls as it's being scratched. 
Oats for catching and reins for riding. 
Under the lamp, darkness 
The soul to the Lord, the rest to the devil. 
Better be the head of a dog than the tail of a lion
Pray to God war is heard but not seen! 
In the Emperor's presence to abide is just like sleeping by a tiger's side 
Be the slave of him whose bread you eat 
To dance to a person's pipe
A dog knows his master. 
Give to the emperor what is the emperor's and to God what is God's. 
If you embrace your masters, feed their dogs. 
With one's hat in one's hand one goes throughout the land 
Better a wife with rye than a lady with barley. 
Better to be a hired hand at a wealthy house than the master of a poor house. 
Both a farmer and a willow thicket are hard to do away with. 
Discretion is the better part of valor
The thief takes what has been left behind by the careless. 
He who does not look after his property will have many thieves. 
Watch out for a bull's front side, a horse's backside, and a bad person's every side. 
Tie your horse well, your boat even better. 
Better ten steps around than one step in the mire 
The thief fears the daylight. 
He who thinks he is standing tall should be wary of lapsing into sin. 
He that looks not before finds himself behind
Fields have eyes and woods have ears
You should always sleep with one eye open. 
The bedclothes are lying down, but I'm not asleep. 
Qui cherche le danger, y périra 
A rat who gnaws at a cat's tail invites destruction 
The fire is no toy! 
Stecke nicht deine Hand in alle Löcher, entweder kommt eine Schlange oder eine Eidechse heraus
Take heed of still waters, the quick pass away
Wake not a sleeping dog
Though thy enemy seem a mouse, yet watch him like a lion
Even an axe is not sharpened on one side. 
A tree is never felled on one side alone. 
The mouse that has but one hole is soon catched
Take something along with you when going out, bring something back when returning. 
The weather carries the load, and not even a good horse 
The road carries the load, and not even a good horse 
Never part company with a road or an old friend. 
What is used wears down. 
Too much the death of he who is moving. 
Slow and steady wins the race
He that leaves the highway to cut short, commonly goes about
One day on the road and food for a week. 
Light burdens become heavy
Come rain or shine, no man will melt. 
Man does not melt like salt or drench like paper. 
Knowledge is power
Good sense costs money and cannot be bought with money 
He's not truly wise if he shows no cunning. 
Subtlety is better than force
Stupidity is worse than theft. 
Better an open enemy than a false friend
Who knows a lot, runs along the road; who knows little, sleeps on the oven. 
A fool will not notice the tasty slice, nor will a pig savour the salted fish. 
A word to the wise is sufficient
Robbing Peter to pay Paul
He carries water in a sieve
To dig one's grave with one's own hands 
You can't break a wall with your head. 
If you put a fool to pray, he'll break his own forehead. 
He pours water into the sea
Oil does not extinguish the fire. 
It is not necessary to teach a fish to swim
There is nothing left to do in what has been done. 
Don't give a sword to a child
The fool should not be goaded, a rotten tree should not be shaken. 
When you fool a fool, the more foolish he will be. 
A fool may put something in a wise body's head
The blind leads the blind and both fall into the ditch
Let fortune be taken, the rope for the complaint's neck. 
Fortune favours the brave
One cheek is bloody, the other greasy 
He that would pick the rose must sometimes be scarred with the thorns
Large fish spawn in deep waters. 
Honey is sweet, but the bee stings
One man against a man, two against a bear. 
Innocent blood does not tremble. 
No pains no gains
Fear has large eyes. 
Don't paint the devil on the wall. 
The frightened crow also fears the bush. 
The fright is greater than the wound
Live and let live. 
It is the wise man who knows when to give in. 
The wind cannot snap a tree which bends down. 
Besser biegen als brechen
Stroke a cat the wrong way and it'll become angry. 
Wise fear begets care
He that fights and runs away, may live to fight another day
A living dog is better than a dead lion
A craft is no burden. 
It's easy if you can. 
Who pursues work is not yet a man, who is pursued by work is a man. 
The maker surely knows his work. 
A job will find its workman. 
The wise drink beer, the ignorant throw up. 
The awkward man has his thumb in the middle of his palm. 
A bald-headed man finds a comb 
Where the work is being done, there the bread is eaten. 
The pig and the smith make the old new. 
A good tool does already half of the work. 
What is a workman without his tools?
Even a ram relies on its large horns. 
Everything is needed in a house: the stub of a knife, a shabby axe, a whore, a mutt. 
Linen is gold, wool mud. 
A wet log doesn't burn. 
Butter melts where leather burns. 
Butter melts where wool burns. 
Butter melts where skin burns. 
Tie a knot at the end of the string, so you won't have to stick in vain. 
Without legs one cannot run far, nor without wings fly. 
No bird flies without wings. 
It is hard to catch birds with an empty hand
He who wants also gets. 
When good is sought, better is found. 
Each one has to scratch for himself
Who is itching must scratch himself. 
A perch makes its own decisions: it takes the bait if it wants. 
He that touched pitch shall be defiled
God above, king afar. 
You can tell a chicken by its eggs. 
When a thing is done, advice comes too late
A man without shame is always full 
Your own woof, your own warp. 
Jack of all trades, master of none
A man of many trades begs his bread on Sunday
You cannot run and pee at the same time. 
He that hath many irons in the fire, some will cool
He who runs after two hares catches neither
No one can serve two masters
Who would gather everyone's view. 
Two heads in one hood at once
Between two stools my tail goes to ground
He that builds a house by the side of the highway, either too high or too low
Work is afraid of the master. 
If there is a question, there is also an answer 
A bad name as a reward. 
In doing good one does it to oneself; in doing evil one does it to oneself
A man bears a name, a dog gives a name. 
A man resembles his work. 
There would be eaters if there were only collectors. 
When the tree is fallen every man goes to it with his hatchet
When it's caught together, it's also eaten together. 
There is land for the ploughman and water for the rower. 
He who does all the work will always be hungry. 
You leave work only under the turf. 
He who works always receives something, he who doesn't gets nothing. 
Bread does not grow by singing, nor work progress by sitting. 
Not every day is a festival when one can eat sweetmeat 
He who consecrates each Sabbath beholds all hungers . 
Chicken today, teather tomorrow.
If work were a sweetmeat, the masters would touch it. 
What you eat and sleep, you get for yourself. 
A fool spends his time working. 
Better to command another than do it oneself. 
The land grows even when the farmer is sleeping. 
Quick at meal quick work
He who is asleep cannot commit a sin. 
Even a berry is picked off the ground. 
Who will not keep a penny, shall never have many
Even a king wears worn clothes. 
You'll never get anything new if you don't use the old! 
Eat the bones since you ate the meat. 
The careful man takes from his store, the miser from his coffer, the open-handed from his ass. 
Of saving comes having
You don't become rich with large earnings but with small costs. 
Live according to your means 
No one becomes rich by eating. 
He who earns much spends much. 
The cat will eat its prey alone. 
A dog does not eat hay nor give to others. 
He who does not feed his cat will feed rats. 
Only what one has eaten is one's own 
What the good-wife spares, the cat eats
Death has the key to open the miser's chest 
You don't have to teach your son; life will teach him 
Travel makes a wise man better, but a fool worse
Time will tell
Travellers have leave to lie
Never too old to learn
He that will not be counselled, cannot be helped
You begin to know how to by learning
Learning begets skill. 
Poured water won't stay in the well 
You can't serve wisdom with a ladle. 
Work teaches work 
Every man has his forte
Practice makes perfect
Acquire new knowledge by "warming up" old knowledge 
Two are in fifty, ten tens in a hundred. 
If a man cheats me once, shame on him; if he cheats me twice, shame on me
A burnt child shuns fire. 
Once bitten, twice shy
Bitten skin is sore, stricken skin is smarting. 
He who makes no mistakes makes nothing
By others' faults wise men correct their own
One grain suffices to test a whole pot of boiled rice 
The early bird catches the worm
Early to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise 
Eat, afterwards bones only remain 
Time is money
Every dog has his day and every man his hour
Mow when wet, rake when dry. 
Strike while the iron is hot
The tree must be bent while it is young
Measure twice, cut but once
He who thinks a lot seldom acts. 
Eat what you are given, you may not have a second chance! 
He thought that roasted larks would have fallen into his mouth
Festivities will not last forever and halls are not cleaned every day. 
Better to dam a ditch than a river. 
A stitch in time saves nine
He gives twice who gives quickly
The good master builds a sleigh in the summer and a carriage in the winter. 
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do today
The pig eats the supplies. 
When matters are drawn out, they become twisted. 
He who takes his time to choose gets the worst one. 
It's too late to go to the mill when the husks are in the sack. 
After meat, mustard; after death the doctor
It's too late to make a cover for the well, since the child has already drowned. 
Tomorrow's backside is black. 
Wit will arrive, but only on the night train. 
While the grass is growing the steed starves
A bird that sings early in the morning is in a hawk's ass in the evening. 
He who saddles early rides late. 
Don't praise it before you have it in your mouth. 
One swallow makes no summer
There is many a slip betwixt the cup and the lip
Not even a bird flies before it has wings. 
Don't sell the bear skin before you have caught the bear. 
Don't cook before you have a kettle! 
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched
Say no ill about the year till it be past
There is surely plenty of time in a hundred years. 
Tomorrow is a new day. 
A little each day, a lot each week. 
The fish will bite the patient man's hook and line. 
Better to spend a day thinking it over than a week working for no purpose at all. 
To take counsel of one's pillow
Evening is wiser than morning. 
Patience - in time the grass becomes milk. 
Ripe fruit falls of itself 
Time cures all wounds. 
Fair and softly goes far in a way
Let's sit down and let haste go by. 
The slow will win the quick. 
The oxman spends his night where the horseman does. 
A slow fire makes sweet meat
He that goes softly, goes safely
Easy come, easy go
Soon ripe, soon rotten
Haste makes waste
God didn't create haste, but did command us to hurry. 
It is easy to get something small from something large, but harder to get something large from something small. 
No two days are alike
Die Zeiten ändern sich, und der Mensch ändert sich mit der Zeit
He who does not go forward goes backward. 
Sometimes to sink, sometimes to rise 
Every tide has its ebb
Fair weather follows the thunderstorm. 
New brooms sweep clean
Old brooms sweep better. 
Put new stuff into the gut when the old one dies. 
What is valuable is not new, and what is new is not valuable
Don't find fault with the old one before you know the habits of the new one. 
Cast not out the dowed water till you get the clean
There is nothing new under the sun
History repeats itself.
It remains unknown if it has not been seen. 
I'm here today, where tomorrow. 
Better to sell time than to buy it. 
No one knows what the morrow will bring 
Don't call a morsel fat before you've skinned the animal
A herring does not know who will eat it, nor does a maid know her suitor. 
We live as we can, not as we wish. 
Tomorrow has its care, the next day its tasks. 
No day passes by without some grief
Every day has its own worries. 
No day [ends] without misfortune. 
The patient man's lot is best. 
The bitter past, more welcome is the sweet 
You can even get used to life in hell. 
Not all your days are at an end. 
New day, better luck. 
If one piece of advice fails, then another one will surely help. 
You can never tell from the sky or a child's bottom. 
Even spat cabbage is edible. 
Though the night tarry, the dawn will break
When a door closes another opens
While there's life there's hope
When the need is highest, help is nearest
If you want to touch the head, first touch the foot 
If you cut a tree, cut at the base and not at the top. 
Every beginning is hard
The best step, the first step
The beginning makes work pretty, in the end thanks stand. 
The wood of which tools are made is crooked from the beginning. 
The warp yarn stretched between the beams is already woven. 
All is well that ends well 
The end crowns all
When eating porridge, don't pity butter. 
Better the last smile than the first laughter
Such a beginning, such an end. 
Well begun is half done
Everything has a beginning
Who is first put into the bag is last taken out. 
It will go as it came. 
Everything has an end and a pudding hath two
The thread's end will appear if you pull long enough. 
Misfortunes never come singly
The third time pays for all 
True only the second time around. 