Every fool is pleased with his own folly.
The bird loves her own nest.
Liars should have a good memory.
Desperate diseases must have desperate cures.
A bad craftsman blames his tools.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Conceal not the truth from thy physician and lawyer.
A workman is known by his chips.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
He complains wrongfully at the sea that suffer shipwreck twice.
Everybody to whom much is given, much is expected.
Keep a thing seven years and you'll find a use for it.
Heaven helps those who help themselves.
Love, smoke and cough are hard to hide.
Every why has a wherefore.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about.
The truth needs no colors.
Wine has drowned more than the sea.
Much ado about nothing.
Ill gotten goods never prosper.
Better fed than taught.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
The heart sees farther than the head.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
Good blood always shows itself.
Take the will for the deed.
Good swimmers are often drowned.
He gives twice, who gives in a trice.
As the old crow sings, so sing its fledglings.
Early ripe, early rotten.
What everybody says must be true.
He who is not with me is against me.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
They who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.
He that flees and runs away might live to see another day.
It's the exception that proves the rule.
It's not what you do it's the way that you do it.
Practice makes perfect.
Do not think that one enemy is insignificant, or that a thousand friends are too many.
Drumming is not the way to catch a hare.
It is not the hen who cackles the loudest who hatches the most eggs.
What is done no longer needs to be done.
Whom God will destroy, he first make mad.
Everyone should sweep before his own door.
Every one for himself and God for us all.
No one knows where the shoe pinches, but he who wears it.
Joy shared, joy doubled: sorrow shared, sorrow halved.
Everything is worth its price.
Charity begins at home.
A scalded cat fears cold water.
Chase away the natural and it returns at a gallop.
Let us look for the woman.
A woman is probably at the heart of the quarrel.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
Comparisons are odious.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
A nice wife and a back door oft make a rich man poor.
Short prayers reach heaven.
God who gives the wound gives the salve.
When in doubt, leave it out.
Whatever measure you deal out to others will be dealt back to you.
Good riding at two anchors, men have told, for if the one fails, the other may hold.
Divide and conquer.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
You don't get nothing for nothing.
A mountain never meets a mountain, but a man meets a man.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
Even a blind pig may occasionally pick up an acorn.
We are to learn as long as we live.
Measure thrice, cut once.
 It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest;
 Don't wash your dirty linen in public.
  Nobody can serve two masters.
  Time and tide waits for no man.
  Proffer'd service stinks.

It is good fishing in troubled waters.