Better be alone than in bad company: and in good company, is better than be alone.
All good things come in threes.
Everything is worth its price.
Everything is worth what its purchaser will pay for it.
all in good time
patience is a virtue
An old fox understands a trap.
Grey hairs are honorable.
The old ones shall be honoured, the young ones shall be taught
A fool is ever laughing.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Different countries, different customs.
Physician, heal thyself!
Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies. 
desperate times call for desperate measures.
There is no little enemy.
You must meet roughness with roughness.
Out of sight, out of mind
You can't milk a bull.
Adversity is the mother of wisdom.
Take heed of enemies reconciled and of meat twice boiled.
Delays are dangerous
strike while the iron is hot
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
He gives twice, who gives in a trice.
Early ripe, early rotten.
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end.
A man's worst enemies are often those of his own house.
A nice wife and a back door oft make a rich man poor.
It is not wise to open old wounds.
It is better to be alone than to be in bad company.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
Precepts teach, but examples move.
Better foolish by all than wise by yourself.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Do not judge others by your own yardstick.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
If life gives you lemons, make lemonade.
The eye looks but it is the mind that sees.
Bad is the best choice.
Buy cheaply, pay dearly.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Fortune favours the bold.
The heart does not lie. —or— The heart sees farther than the head.
Don't throw out the child with the bath water.
While the grass grows the steed starves.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
Paper is forbearing.
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest
Don't wash your dirty linen in public.
A fish stinks from the head.
The covetous man is good to none and worst to himself.
Health is wealth
Good health is more to be desired than wealth.
Might is always right.
It is not what you do, but the way that you do it
Halls don't grace men, it's men that grace halls.
The remedy is often worse than the disease
Burn not your house to rid it off the mouse.
Take heed if you find what you do not seek.
The best defence is a good offense.
Second thoughts are the best.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
Beggars can’t be choosers.
Eavesdroppers hear no good of themselves.
God is on the side of the strongest batallions.
The shoemaker goes barefoot.
He who sups with the devil needs a long spoon.
Man proposes but God disposes.
His own desire leads every man.
Good riding at two anchors, men have told, for if the one fails, the other may hold.
Every man thinks his own geese swans.
The last will be first, and the first last.
Men are like fish
the great ones devour the small.
Forget other faults remembering your own
Forgive and forget.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
Dropped the ball (Made a mistake that allowed something bad to happen).
Honesty is the best policy.
Don't blow your own horn.
Do not think that one enemy is insignificant, or that a thousand friends are too many.
He that leave a certainty and sticks to chance, when fools pipe he may dance.
One today is worth ten tomorrows.
One nail drives out another.
All is well that ends well.
Look before you leap.
A closed mouth catches no flies.
It takes two to tango.
There is no greater torment than to be alone in paradise.
He was in Rome and did not see the pope.
There are none so blind as they who will not see.
All that glitters is not gold.
Misery loves company.
A single swallow doth not the summer make.
To carry coals to Newcastle. (UK)
Diffidence is the right eye of prudence.
Drumming is not the way to catch a hare.
Take heed if you find what you do not seek.
A honey tongue and a heart of gall.
What is learnt in the cradle lasts to the tomb.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
Common fame is seldom to blame.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
History repeats itself.
Good health is above wealth.
Joy shared, joy doubled
sorrow shared, sorrow halved.
Great minds think alike.
Fight fire with fire.
Envy always shooteth at a high mark.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Fear the man of one book.
Bitter pills may have blessed effects.
Courage lost, all lost.
Take the will for the deed.
A closed mouth catches no flies.
Today me, tomorrow thee.
He that lives on hope shall die fasting.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
Beware of false prophets.
Don't change horses in midstream.
No one can be the judge in his own case.
Wine has drowned more than the sea.
Name not a rope in his house who hanged himself.
If fortune favours, beware of being exalted
if fortune thunders, beware of being overwhelmed.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
When in doubt, leave it out.
The more you stroke the cat's tail, the more he raises his back.
The sweetest flesh is near the bones.
The more the merrier.
The bird loves her own nest.
Reckless youth makes rueful age.
Sweep your own doorstep clean.
No one knows where the shoe pinches, but he who wears it.
No book was so bad, but some good might be got out of it.
Lose nothing for want of asking.
Little pitchers have big ears.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
He that runs and flees away, might live to see another day.
Do as you may, if you can't do as you could.
Easier said than done.
Eggs and oaths are soon broken.
It will all be the same a hundred years hence.
Love, smoke and cough are hard to hide.
Better bow than break.
Better go about than fall into the ditch.
A lie has short legs.
Give neither salt nor counsel till you are asked for it.
What is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh.
Take things as you find them.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Judge not a man and things at first sight.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Don't add fuel to the fire.
Do not throw pearls before swine.
Many kiss the hand they wish cut off.
Whatever measure you deal out to others will be dealt back to you.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
You can catch more flies with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy wealthy and wise.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all that sit near him.
Nature is beyond all teaching.
Envy takes no holiday.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
No man is indispensable.
No one that has suffered shipwreck for the second time can complain about the sea.
Take counsel of one's pillow.
(Don't) add fuel to the fire.
Few words are best.
Counsel is no command.
Shame take him that shame thinketh.
Good laws have sprung from bad customs.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
Hasty judgment leads to repentance.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Handsome is that handsome does.
Give the devil his due.
Better safe than sorry.
Don't judge things and a man at first sight.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
If you want a thing done right, do it yourself.
A cat may look at a king.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
If you play with fire you will get burned.
Standing pools gathers mud.
Actions speak louder than words.
Divide and conquer.
Preachers say: Do as I say, not as I do.
Practice makes perfect.
In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
Look before you leap, for snakes among sweet flowers do creep.
Money is there to be spent.
Forbidden fruit is sweetest.
Everybody to whom much is given, much is expected.
Wisdom comes with age.
Trust begets trust.
Great cry and little wool / Empty vessels makes the most noise
Ignorance is bliss.
Jack of all trades and a master of none.
Out of the frying pan and into the fire.
Prevention is better than cure
A store is no sore
Keep a thing seven years and you'll find a use for it.
Truth is simple, lies are complicated.

Don't look a gift horse in the mouth / Beggars can't be choosers
If the shoe fits, wear it.
He that will not be counseled cannot be helped.
When all men say you are an ass it is time to bray.
the fish rots from the head down ¬¬¬¬
If the mountain will not come to Mohammed, Mohammed must go to the mountain.
If the sky falls, we shall catch larks.
For what thou canst do thyself, rely not on another.
Where God bestows an office, he gives brains to fill it.
When thy friend asks, let there be no to-morrow.
There are too many chiefs and not enough indians.
Whom God will destroy, he first make mad.
He who serves God has a good master.
Who has not served cannot command.
Sow thin, shear thin.
He that would eat the kernel must crack the nut.
He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
He that steals an egg will steal an ox.
One must step back to take a good leap.
Let him that is cold blow the coals.
Honey is sweet, but the bees sting.
if you have no enemies it is a sign that fortune has forgotten you
People throw stones only at trees with fruit on them.
Love me, love my dog.
He who is not with me is against me.
He who does not advance goes backwards.
He that makes himself an ass must not take it ill if men ride him.
Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
First come, first served.
He who laughs last, laughs longest.
You must not run after two hares at the same time.
As you make your bed, so you must lie.
As you make your bed, so you must lie.
Like father, like son.
Like mother, like daughter.
How many ifs fill a bushel?
He that will not be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the rock.
You get what you pay for.
Learning is the eye of the mind.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
A poor craftsman blames his tools.
Men leap over where the hedge is lower.
Also: Where god has a church the devil will have his chapel.
Without temptation there is no victory.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
He that swells in prosperity will shrink in adversity.
Choose the lesser of two evils.
Hard words break no bones.
Time is precious.
At night all cats are grey.
Poets are born, but orators are trained.
A stitch in time saves nine.
