Not all that shines is gold, nor all that glows is silver.
All that glitters is not gold.
Not worth it to go further than the sea for fish.
Do not cross the brook for water.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
No one is a blacksmith when they are born.
No one can be an expected to be an expert at something before they have tried it.
Live and learn.
One shouldn't make a bull out of a fly.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
No smoke without fire.
Every why hath its wherefore.
An accident won't arrive with a bell on its neck.
An old dog doesn't bark lies.
An old dog barks not in vain.
I do not recognize his achievements as almost anything.
A barking dog does not bite.
What is acquired easily is lost easily.
Easy come, easy go.
Big fish are worth of fishing even if you don't catch one.
A poke in the eye for those, who dwell on the past.
Forgive and forget.
Who promises a lot, gives a little.
He that promises too much means nothing.
One time after the denial.
One more for the road.
When something has been denied of you, you can still do it once.
When you flee from a wolf, you run into a bear.
Jump out of the frying pan into the fire.
Read like the devil reads the Bible.
The devil can cite scripture for his purpose. 
In a country according to its customs.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
Such mother, such daughter.
Like mother, like daughter.
Such father, such son.
Like father, like son.
One sleeps like one makes his bed.
Actions have consequences.
As you sow, so shall you reap/You reap what you sow. You've made your bed, now lie in it.
The forest answers in the same way one shouts at it.
The world you get is the world you give away, What goes around comes around or You reap what you sow. The proverb refers to the echo that the treeline produces.
One's own help is the best help.
Helping yourself is the best way to help yourself.
Heaven helps those who help themselves.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Iron must be forged when it is hot.
You should hammer your iron, while it is glowing hot;Strike while the iron's hot.
Little is better than nothing.
Better a lean jade than an empty halter.
Evil will get its share.
Evil will get its pay.
Harm watch is harm catch.
Better a bitter truth than a sweet lie.
An honest 'no' is better than an insincere 'yes'.
Better one hazel grouse in the bag, than ten on the branch.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A beloved child has many names.
A snotnose may grow up to be a man; but he who laughs without cause, never.
The mocked may grow up to dignity, but the mocker will never outgrow his juvenile behaviour.
You reap what you sow.
As ye sow shall ye reap.
The mouth lies, but the eyes tell the truth.
The wife of the cobbler and the horse of the smith always have bad shoes.
A tree is climbed from its base.
Learn to walk before you can run.
All eggs should not be put in one basket.
Don’t put all your eggs in one basket.