
Laws catch flies but let hornets go free.
The appetite comes with eating
Many hands make light work.
The cat shuts its eyes when stealing cream.
We'll see what we'll see
Maybe rain or maybe snow, maybe yes or maybe no.
Misery loves company.
When the cat is away, the mice will play.
Those who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.
Many hands make light work
The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away.
All good comes in threes.
Tomorrow comes never.
Loose lips sink ships.
Paper is forbearing.
From your mouth to God's ears.
East or West - home is best.
In the house of the hanged man, they mention not the rope.
We are to learn as long as we live.
A tree is known by its fruit.
One's reach exceeds one's grasp.
Wolf in sheep's clothing.
(You need to) face your fears.
Hawks will not pick out hawk's eyes.
That’s where the shoe pinches
That’s the crux.
That’s where the shoe pinches
That’s the rub.
Time heals all wounds.
There is a black sheep in every flock.
All's well that ends well.
Every cook praises his own broth.
Everything is good in its season.
A blind man should not judge of colours.
Carry coals to Newcastle.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
Luke 6:41: And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye?
The chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
The dog gnaws the bone because he cannot swallow it
You never know what you can do till you try
Birds fly not into our mouth ready roasted
God helps those who help themselves
No pain, no gain
A beggar can never be bankrupt.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
The leopard cannot change his spots.
Give him an inch and he'll take a yard/mile.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
To cook a hare before catching him
Don't count your chickens before they hatch
Don't run before your horse to market
Don't put the cart before the horse.
One good turn deserves another.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A friend in need's a friend indeed.
There is no law for fools.
A fool may throw a stone into a well which a hundred wise men cannot pull out.
There's a sucker born every minute.
Always be prepared (or "always bring more than you need")
Better to have and not need than to need and not have.
If ifs and buts were candy and nuts
If wishes were horses, beggars might ride.
If ifs and ands were pots and pans, then we would need no tinkers.
If wishes were fishes, there'd be no room in the river for water.
If wishes were horses, we'd all be eating steak.
Youth is wasted on the young
The more laws, the more offenders.
Life was never meant to be easy
life's no walk in the park.
Forbidden fruit is sweetest.
Zeal without knowledge is a runaway horse.
Don't shoot the messenger.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
Lesser of two evils
Out of the frying pan and into the fire.
A word dropped from a song makes it all wrong.
Prevention is better than cure.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Time conquers all.
You can't catch the wind in a net.
What goes around, comes around.
Plenty is no plague.
It is a good horse that never stumbles.
Don't change horses in the midstream.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Damned if you do, damned if you don't
Strike while the iron is hot
Make hay while the sun shines.
Don't kick against the pricks, meaning don't try to remove a thorn by pushing it in deeper -- don't injure yourself in an attempt to use brute force to go through/past an obstacle which requires finesse in order to pass.
Don't kick a man when he's down.
You can’t make an omelette without breaking an egg.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
A fly in the ointment
The rotten apple spoils the barrel.
Best is the enemy of good.
Seeing is believing
One look is worth a thousand words.
Better late than never.
Love is blind.
Iron fist in a velvet glove
Velvet paws hide sharp claws.
Don't trouble trouble until trouble troubles you.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Something is better than nothing.
Trust in God, but lock your car.
All hat and no cattle.
There is no accounting for taste.
A guilty mind betrays itself.
He who pleased everybody died before he was born.
In for a penny, in for a pound
If you pledge, don't hedge.
Speak of the devil, and he appears.
Diamond cut diamond, You have met your match.
A honey tongue, a heart of gall.
It's the quiet ones you gotta watch.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
You've asked for trouble.
Life's not all beer and skittles
Life's not all wine and roses
I never promised you a bed of roses
Not all that glitters is gold.
All that glitters is not gold.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch
Don't make a promise you can't keep.
Wait for the cat to jump.
Cast not your pearls before swine.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained
He that never climbed, never fell.
Actions can boomerang
Never cast dirt into that fountain of which you have sometime drunk
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Steal, but do not get caught.
Curses like chickens come home to roost.
There is no smoke without fire.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Neither here nor there
Neither fish nor flesh.
A new broom sweeps clean.
In with the new and out with the old.
Once bitten, twice shy.
The game isn’t worth the candle.
One man, no man
Out of the frying pan and into the fire.'
Leave well enough alone
Enough is as good as a feast.
Leave well enough alone.
A burden of one's own choice is not felt.
You have to learn to crawl before you can learn to walk.
The pitcher goes often to the well but is broken eventually.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
Practice makes perfect.
Beauty may open the door, but only virtue enters.
Give one an inch, and he will take a mile.
What’s done is done; Don't lock the stable door after the horse has bolted.
Haste makes waste.
Old habits die hard.
Once bitten, twice shy
You can do any job later.
You can’t expect perfection every time.
You scratch my back, I’ll scratch yours. 
One hand washes the other.
It takes one to know one.
Who keeps company with the wolves, will learn to howl
You are like the company you keep
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
A burden of one's own choice is not felt
Nature abhors a vacuum
The throne is never vacant
Out of sight, out of mind.
For one that is missing there's no spoiling a wedding.
As well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb.
Measure thrice, cut once.
Those who sleep with dogs will rise with fleas
You are what your friends are.
A leopard can't change his spots.
Talk is cheap.
Talk is cheap, silence is golden.
News spreads like wildfire
News flies fast.
Little things make a big difference.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
What's done is done.
A dog in the manger.
A little bird told me.
An old ape has an old eye
Old age, boy, is no joy.
He that is warm thinks all so.
On the other side grass is greener.
Time works wonders
He that can have patience can have what he wants.
No pain, no gain
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Winning is earning, losing is learning., Sadder but wiser
A bargain is a bargain.
Everybody's business is nobody's business.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
A foolish friend is like an open enemy.
Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings come great truth.
A drowning man will cling to a straw.
I need to sleep on it.
Knowledge is power.
Bread is the staff of life.
He is so pig-headed
Stubborn as a mule.
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.
Don't count your chickens before they hatched.
Man proposes, God disposes.
Man proposes, God disposes.
Six of one, half a dozen the other.
You never miss the water till the well runs dry.
The pot calls the kettle black.
Like father like son
The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs.
