 You catch fish with both hands.
 Between two stools, you fall to the ground
 To run with the hare and hold with the hound
 Adversity is the mother of wisdom.
 Handsome is as handsome does.
 Rats desert a sinking ship.
 Nine people, ten ideas
 To carry wood back into the forest.
 Fortune favors the brave.
 If you put in the work to sharpen the steel, it will eventually turn into needles.
 Persevere and never fear.
 Where there's a will, there's a way.
 once bitten, twice shy
 Something is better than nothing
 It's no use preaching to a hungry man
 Money talks. If you have money, can you buy even fairies.
 That which belongs to heaven, returns to earth.
 Ill gotten, ill spent. 
 Laughs at others today, and tomorrow others will laugh at you
 He who laughs last, laughs best.
 Easy come, easy go.
 Fight fire with fire.
 Making peace is treasured.
 You can't kill someone's habit.
 Old habits die hard.
 A good beginning makes a good ending.
 He that knows nothing doubts nothing.
 When the father's generation eats salt, the child's generation thirsts for water.
 Birds of a feather flock together.
 If near ink, you will be black, if near light, you will shine.
 Tell me with whom though goest, and I will tell what though doest.
 A friend in need is a friend indeed. 
 Learning without playing you lose your youth.
 Playing without learning you lose your future.
 All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
 Misfortunes never come singly.
 Misery loves company.
 Good wine needs no bush.
 Silence is golden. 
 Silence gives consent.
 patience is mother of success.
 Words don't match with actions.
 Blood is much thicker than water.
 Blood is thicker than water.
 Man proposes, god disposes.
 Better a lean peace than a fat victory.
 Half a loaf is better than no bread. 
 For every seed a corresponding fruit.
 You reap what you sow.
 Don't count your chickens before they're hatched. 
 Water flows, rock erodes.
 Constant dripping wears the stone.
 You can catch more flies with honey than you can with vinegar.
 Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
 Live by the sword, die by the sword. 
 Never trouble trouble till trouble troubles you.
 Walls have ears.
 The hand works, the mouth is allowed to chew.
 He that does not work shall not eat.
 Mistaking red for ripe.
 Like money, like stuff.
 You get what you pay for.
 If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly
 If you buy quality you only cry once.
 The higher you climb, the greater you fall.
 A poor workman blames his tools.
 Out of sight, out of mind.
 Long absent, soon forgotten
 Out of sight, out of mind.
 A workman is known by his chips.
