Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Still waters run deep.
While the grass grows, the steed starves.
Good wine needs no bush.
Eavesdroppers hear no good of themselves.
All that is fair must fade
Like father, like son.
You must not run after two hares at the same time.
He gives twice, who gives in a trice.
He that will not when he may, when he will he may have nay.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
He who digs a pit for others, will fall in it himself.
Like will to like
Don't blow your own horn.
Eary to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
Least said, soonest mended.
A golden key opens any gate but that of heaven.
As you make your bed, so you must lie.
Children, fools and drunken men tell the truth.
It will all be the same a hundred years hence.
Every little helps.
Set a herring to catch a whale.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
Like mother, like daughter.
As you make your bed, so you must lie.
If only I knew then, what I do now.
Necessity has no law.
Of two evils choose the least.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
After rain comes sunshine.
There is no accounting for taste.
Handsome is that handsome does.
All is well that ends well.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Among the blind, the one-eyed is king.
Beware of false prophets which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly, they are ravening wolves.
Honesty is the best policy.
You can catch more flies with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Everyone should sweep before his own door.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Beggars can’t be choosers.
No one knows where the shoe pinches, but he who wears it.
Preachers say do as I say and not as I do.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
There is no smoke without fire.
Don't leave for tomorrow what you can do today.
Don't add fuel to the fire.
Do not throw pearls before swine.
Don't sell the skin till you have caught the bear.
Give neither salt nor counsel till you are asked for it.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Walk the talk.
Advice most needed are the least heeded.
All is fish that comes to the net.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
Man proposes, God disposes.
Where there is a will, there is a way.
