All good things are three.
Everyone knows the monkey, but the monkey knows no one.
All methods are good except for the bad ones.
All roads lead to Rome.
We all start out as children.
The first pancake is always spoiled.
Everyone wants to be lords, but no one wants to carry the sack.
There are too many chiefs and not enough Indians.
Everything has its time.
To everything there is a season.
Attack is the best defense.
The best defense is a good offense.
Angry cats get scratched skin.
Quarrelsome dogs come limping home.
To separate is to die a little.
To defend a wrong, is to wrong do anew.
To dare is to lose your foothold for a moment, to not dare is to lose yourself.
From children, drunkards and madmen you get to hear the truth.
Children, fools and drunken men tell the truth.
Injury makes you wise.
Envy never rests.
Envy takes no holiday.
Only dead fish follow the stream.
Children do as you do, not as you say.
Treat others as you would want to be treated yourself.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
Blood is thicker than water.
Only Sweden has Swedish gooseberries.
Sweep your own doorstep clean.
Away is good but home is best.
A good man manages on his own.
Every bird must hatch its own eggs.
Burnt child shuns the fire.
Once bitten, twice shy.
Better breadless than clueless.
Better short of pence than short of sense.
Poor memory is better than bad memories.
Rather an honest 'no' than an insincere 'yes'.
Better to preempt, than to be preempted.
Better give the slight than take it.
Better one bird in the hand than ten in the forest.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Better alone than in bad company.
Better to flee than to fence poorly.
He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
Better late than never.
Better to dam the brook than the creek.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Time and tide waits for none.
Better to keep quiet than to speak poorly (of someone).
Man more often repents what he did say than he did not.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Best to learn from other people's injury.
Wise men learn by other men's harms, fools by their own.
The dew falls on both dirt and lily.
Shared joy is twice the joy (and shared grief is half the grief).
Joy shared, joy doubled: sorrow shared, sorrow halved.
That day, that sorrow.
Cross your bridges when you reach them.
The drunken man's words are the sober man's thoughts.
The death of one, the bread of the other.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
He who always knows best never learns.
He who bids for much, often loses all.
Grasp all, lose all.
He who enters the game must endure it.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
He who digs a pit for others, often falls into it himself.
He who lives shall see.
Only time will tell.
He who sleeps does not sin.
Criticism is something you can avoid by saying nothing, doing nothing and being nothing.
He who saves, has.
Waste not, want not.
He who stays quiet consents.
He who whispers lies.
He who dares wins.
He who waits for something good never waits too long.
The nail that sticks out gets struck.
It concerns you, too, when your neighbor's wall is on fire.
Things never turn out the way you imagined.
It will be like it will be.
We must take things as we find them.
What is unclearly said is unclearly thought.
There's no such thing as bad weather, only the wrong clothes.
You should forge while the iron is hot.
Strike while the iron is hot.
No fried sparrows will fly into your mouth.
Birds fly not into our mouth ready roasted.
What one's head lacks one has to have in one's legs.
A forgetful head makes a weary pair of heels.
What you do not know does not hurt you.
What you lose at the swings you take back at the merry-go-round.
What you lose on the swings you gain on the roundabouts.
It is to be bent in time, that which bent shall be.
Soon crooks the tree that good gambrel would be.
What starts with a needle usually ends with a silver bowl.
He that steals an egg will steal an ox.
What doesn't kill, hardens.
That which does not kill you, makes you stronger. Pain is gain.
What is hidden in snow is revealed at thaw.
The water you collect from the stream teaches you about its source.
The most important thing is not to win, but to fight well.
It is never too late.
It is best to bite into the sour apple.
Better hold with the hound, as run with the hare.
There is no cow on the ice.
It is not one person's fault if two people quarrel.
It takes two to tango.
It is easy to cut broad strips off other people's leather.
Men cut large thongs of other men's leather.
It is easy to be prudent in hindsight.
It's easy to be wise after the event.
It is more blissful to give than to receive.
There is a difference between people and people.
It is fairer to listen to the string that broke than to never strain a bow.
It is darkest before dawn.
It's always darkest before the dawn.
It's the thought that counts.
Do not pull everyone over with a comb.
Carry one's straw to the hill.
We ourselves feel that what we are doing is just a drop in the ocean. But the ocean would be less because of that missing drop.
The dripping can hollow the stone.
Constant dripping wears the stone.
Where wine enters sense leaves.
After rain comes sunshine.
It's a long lane that has no turning.
Afterwards is no advice.
Advice comes too late when a thing is done.
Own hearth is gold worth.
There is no place like home.
Self-praise stinks.
Don't blow your own horn.
Don't light a fire for the crows.
A picture says more than a thousand words.
A picture paints a thousand words.
A poor craftsman blames his tools.
A poor workman always blames his tools.
A bird in the hand is better than ten in the forest.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush
An ounce of lying saves tons of explanations.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
A clenched fist can neither give nor take.
Better bow than break.
A place for each thing and each thing in its place.
One time is no time.
One time, no time — two times, a habit.
An accident rarely comes alone.
Misery loves company.
One swallow does not a summer make.
A journey of a thousand miles always begins with a single step.
Alone is strong.
Each person is the forger of his own happiness.
Every man is the smith of his own fortune.
A hearty laugh lengthens your life.
A soft answer calms the wrath.
A clean conscience is the best pillow.
A good conscience is a soft pillow; a safe conscience makes a sound sleep.
If there is room in the heart, there is room for the behind.
Faith is half the battle.
To lazy pigs the ground is always frozen.
Idle people have the least leisure.
Forbidden fruit always tastes the best.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
Forbidden road is often heavily worn.
First to the mill will first grind.
First come, first served.
Old love never rusts.
Old is oldest.
The older the fiddle the sweeter the tune.
Through yourself you know others.
A thief thinks everyone around him is a thief.
Shortcuts are often “longcuts.”
The grass is always greener on the other side (of the fence).
The grass is always greener on the far side of the hill.
Dig where you stand.
Bloom where you are planted.
Gold blinds many, love blinds all.
Do not cross the brook for water.
Circle like the cat around hot porridge.
Beat around the bush.
Do not make a hen out of a feather.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Redo, do right.
If at first you don’t succeed, try, try again.
He that stumbles and falls not, mends his pace.
He has been to Rome but has not seen the pope.
If one has said 'A' one has to say 'B'.
Who says "A" must say "B".
If you have brought the devil on your boat, you must also row him to shore.
Better never begun than never ended.
Quick wealth makes the man suspicious.
No one gets rich quickly if he is honest.
Rather one bird in the hand, than ten in the woods.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Better to free one guilty than convict an innocent.
Hope is the last thing to leave a human being.
Hunger is the best flavouring.
Whichever way you turn the rump is on your backside.
Barking follows you home.
The pillow is the best adviser.
Take counsel of one's pillow.
Health is quietly keeping silent [sic!].
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
Revenge is sweet.
Pride goes before a fall.
In the realm of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
Among the blind, the one-eyed is king.
In the calmest waters swim the ugliest fish.
An honest look covereth many faults.
All cats are grey in the dark.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
The truth comes forward in wine.
In wine there is truth.
In the desert sand is cheap.
Beggars can’t be choosers.
Can’t see the wood/forest for the trees.
Constant sunshine makes a desert.
Too much of one thing, good for nothing
No news is good news.
No trees grow to the sky.
All that is fair must fade.
No smoke without fire..
Every why has its wherefore.
No one is indispensable.
No one is a prophet in one's own homeland/home city.
A prophet is not recognized in his own land.
Nothing is new under the sun.
No party without shattering.
No bad thing that doesn't bring something good.
No cloud without a silver lining.
Nothing is so good that it can't be made better.
The more chefs, the worse the soup.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
The closer to the source, the clearer the water.
The later in the evening, the more beautiful the people.
Cookie searches for a wife.
Like will to like.
Don’t throw pearls before swine.
People who live in glass houses shouldn’t throw stones.
Don’t complain about lack of wind – learn to sail.
Comes time, comes counsel.
Clothing makes the man.
The tailor makes the man.
Love is blind.
A beloved child has many names.
Don’t buy the pig in the bag.
Let the buyer have a thousand eyes for the seller wants only one.
Laid card lies.
You can’t unring a bell.
A lazy tailor uses a long thread.
Alike children play the best.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Don't trust for others, what you can do yourself.
For what thou canst do thyself, rely not on another.
A small tuft often tumbles a big load.
Happiness comes happiness leaves.
The wheel of fortune is forever in motion.
All eggs should not be put in one basket,
Don't put all the eggs in the same basket.
Don't put stones on a burden.
Don't add fuel to the fire/flames.
Insight is more valuable than gold.
Easily caught, easily lost.
Easy come, easy go.
Easier hides a wise man his wisdom than a fool his madness.
Easier said than done.
Many speak of Robin Hood who never shot his bow.
Don't let grass grow on your feet.
Don’t let the wolf guard the sheep.
He sets the fox to keep his geese.
Let the food silence the mouth.
The liar will only be trusted once.
You must learn to crawl before you can walk.
Learn to walk before you can run.
The stomach gets full before the eye.
The eye is bigger than the belly.
One must take matters into one's own hands.
Take the custom where you go (literally, "come").
When in Rome, do as the Romans. When among wolves you must howl.
You never have more fun than what you do.
You hear what you want to hear.
One learns as long as one lives.
One learns from mistakes.
One cannot both eat one's cookie and keep it.
You can't have your cake and eat it (too).
You can't teach old dogs to sit.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
You have to correct your mouth according to your lunch pack.
Cut your coat according to your cloth.
You don't miss the cow until the stall is empty.
You never miss the well till it runs dry.
One should not offer cinnamon rolls to baker's children.
One should not change horses in the middle of the stream.
Don't change horses in midstream.
One should not bow before stupidity merely because it is old.
Might is not always right.
You should not judge a dog by its fur.
Never judge a book by its cover; Never judge by appearances.
One should not add oil to the fire.
Don't add fuel to the fire/flames.
Do not weep over spilled milk.
It is no use crying over spilt milk.
You never get tired of working for yourself.
A man does not feel a burden of his own choosing.
You are always closest to yourself.
Skin is nearer than the skirt.
While the grass grows the steed starves.
If you lose one, there are a thousand more to choose from.
There are plenty more fish in the sea.
Morning hour has gold in its mouth.
The early bird catches the worm.
Much wants more.
Much would have more.
Don't paint the devil on the wall.
Small streams make great rivers.
Many strokes cut down great oaks.
Man proposes, God disposes.
New brooms sweep the best.
A new broom sweeps clean.
There must be some moderation.
When it rains manna from heaven, the poor one does not have a spoon.
When it rains on the priest, it dripples on the sacristan.
When the devil grows old he turns religious.
When God brings death, the devil brings heirs.
When you're speaking about the trolls, they're standing in the entrance hall listening.
Speak/talk of the devil...
When the mouse is full, the flour tastes bitter.
When distress is the greatest, help is the nearest.
When the cat is away, the rats dance on the table.
When the cat's away, the mice will play.
Close does not shoot any hares.
Close but no cigar.
Distress knows no law.
Necessity has no law.
If a blind one leads another, they both fall together.
If a blind leads a blind man both shall fall into a ditch.
During the evening the lazy get in a hurry.
If you give someone a finger he wants the whole hand.
Give him an inch and he will take a yard.
Variety delights.
Evil gun powder doesn't go away easily.
Evil shall by evil be expelled.
Fight fire with fire; Like cures like.
Best to be without oaths.
Be quick to act, and slow to promise.
Ingratitude is the world's reward.
Money does not smell.
Money does not grow on trees.
Money opens all gates but heaven's.
Don't praise the day before the sun has set.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
Politicians are like crocodiles — big jaws but no ears.
Rome was not built in one day.
Don't celebrate until you have crossed the creek.
Sin punishes itself.
Slow but/and steady.
Slow and steady wins the race.
(Too) late shall the sinner awaken.
Self is the best farmhand.
If you want something done, do it yourself.
Shame on he who gives up.
Schadenfreude is the only true joy.
Appearances deceive.
Never judge by appearances; Judge not a man and things at first sight.
Don't shoot yourself in the foot.
Don't postpone till tomorrow what you can do today.
Cobbler, stick to your last.
He laughs best who laughs last.
He who laughs last, laughs longest.
Hurry slowly.
Look not a horse in the mouth.
The end is good, everything is good.
All is well that ends well.
If it tastes good, it is expensive.
If you buy quality, you only cry once.
Taste is like the buttocks, divided.
There is no accounting for taste.
The smith's horse and the shoemakers children are worst shod.
Cobblers' children are worst shod.
Small crumbs are bread too.
Small wounds and poor friends should not be despised.
Stinginess deceives wisdom.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
As old people sing, young people tweet.
The way the devil reads the bible.
The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose. (From Shakespeare, Merchant in Venice act 1, scene 3; Spoken by Antonio: Mark you this, Bassanio, The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.)
As you make your bed, so will you sleep (or the way you make your bed is the way you will lie).
As you make your bed, so you must lie in/on/upon it.
As you shout (in the forest) you will be answered.
What you reap is what you sow./You reap what you sow.
As one is dressed one will be judged.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Some people are punished immediately by God.
Sleeping farmer gets a dreaming farmhand.
A sleepy master makes his servant a lout.
Don't waste gunpowder on dead crows.
Don't beat/flog a dead horse.
Strive not against the stream.
Big in the words, small on the ground.
The worst wheel makes the most noise.
“Sour,” said the fox about the rowanberries.
Sour grapes.
Adversity exists to be overcome.
While there is life there is hope.
Like master like farm hand/slave/dog.
Like master, like man.
Such mother, such daughter.
Like mother, like daughter.
Such father, such son.
Like father, like son.
Don't saw off the branch you're sitting on.
Don't sell the fur until the bear has been shot.
Sell not the bear's skin before you have caught him.
Grab the bull by its horns.
Take the bull by the horns.
To speak is silver, to keep silent is gold.
Silence is golden. (Fuller version, less common: speech is silver; silence is golden.)
Speak with farmers like farmers speak, and with the educated in latin.
Time passes by quickly when you are enjoying yourself.
Time heals all wounds.
Opportunity makes the thief.
Empty barrels rattle most.
Empty vessels make (the) most noise/sound.
Assiduous wins.
God is with those who persevere; Persevere and never fear.
Faith can move mountains.
Faith will move mountains.
Think before (you act).
Look before you leap.
Patience is the art of hoping.
The exception confirms the rule.
The exception proves the rule.
Each day has enough of its own misery.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.
Each bird sings according to its own beak.
Different strokes suit different folks.
Where shall the ladle be if not in the cauldron?
Let him that is cold blow the coals.
Each smith has his custom.
Of what fills the heart speaks the mouth.
The tongue ever turns to the aching tooth; What the heart thinketh the tongue speaketh.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Warned is armed.
Warned is forearmed.
Reality surpasses the poem.
Fact is stranger than fiction.
Faith can move mountains.
No pain, no gain. Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
Those are wise that heed advice, but no one should heed dissuasive advice.
Wisdom has long ears and short tongue.
Nature gave us two ears and one mouth.
Do not wake the bear that sleeps.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
A friend’s slap has honest intentions, your enemies’ kisses are meant to deceive.
A friend’s frown is better than a foe’s smile.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The walls have ears.
The world is small.
It’s a small world.
The donkey is known by his ears, the fool by his words.
Love me when I least deserve it, because that is when I need it the most.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
“If it isn’t one thing it’s the other,” said the girl with a nosebleed.
If the head is dumb, the body suffers.
Honesty lasts the longest.
Honesty is the best policy.
Honor whom should be honored.
Give credit where credit is due.
One should eat or one dies.
Even the best can make mistakes.
A good marksman may miss.
Even the fool is thought wise if he remains silent.
Even a fool when he holdeth his peace is counted wise.
Even a blind hen can find a grain.
Even a blind pig may occasionally pick up an acorn.
Small pots have ears too.
Little pitchers have big ears.
The sun also has its spots.
Every rose has its thorns.
The eyes want more than the stomach.
The eye is bigger than the belly.
Practice gives skill.
Practice makes perfect.