Nothing for nothing.
A honey tongue and a heart of gall.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
Children are uncertain comforts but certain cares.
Cats eat what hussies spare.
He who serves God has a good master.
All good things are three.
No one gets rich quickly if he is honest.
A fair face and a foul heart.
God helps those who help themselves.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
He was in Rome and did not see the pope.
The more the merrier.
Poverty does not lose its virtue; Envy is its own torturer.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Misery loves company.
Time and tide waits for no man.
Easy come, easy go.
Today me, tomorrow thee.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
For what thou canst do thyself, rely not on another.
Forget other faults remembering your own; Forgive and forget.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
It's by the head that the cow gives the milk.
You must meet roughness with roughness.
If there is a will, there is a way.
Fortune favours the bold.
It takes two to tango.
Take the will for the deed.
A good beginning makes a good ending; Well begun is half done.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
Physician, heal yourself!
Children, fools and drunken men tell the truth.
Haste makes waste.
Skill is better than strength.
Love me, love my dog.
The more you stroke the cat's tail, the more he raises his back.
The voice of the people is the voice of god.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
There is no building bridges across the ocean.
History repeats itself.
As the old cock crows, so crows the young.
When the pig is proffered, hold up the poke.
As ye sow, so shall ye reap.
Like mother, like daughter.
What goes around comes around.
You get what you pay for.
Quick at meat, quick at work.
Like father, like son.
Every why has its wherefore.
Just as one calls into the forest, so it echoes back.
Set a herring to catch a whale.
A blind man should not judge of colours.
Do not play with edged tools.
A liar should have a good memory.
Each day brings it own bread.
He that will not be counseled cannot be helped.
You can't milk a bull.
Preachers say: do as I say, not as i do.
A king's favour is no inheritance.
Grasp all, lose all
Plough deep while sluggards sleep, and you will have corn to sell and keep.
He who does not advance goes backwards.
Who falls short in the head must be long in the heels.
Truth gives a short answer, lies go round about.
All truths are not to be told.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
A king's favour is no inheritance.
Whom God will destroy, he first make mad.
Let the buyer have a thousand eyes for the seller wants only one.
Constant dropping wears the stone.
Marry and grow tame.
Strike while the iron is hot.
The covetous man is good to none and worst to himself.
The remedy is often worse than the disease.
Better underdone than overdone.
Better late than never.
"Death before dishonour."
One today is worth two tomorrows.
"Better is the enemy of good."
A good name is the best of all treasures.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Good health is above wealth.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
Though thou hast ever so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul.
Paper is forbearing.
Common fame is seldom to blame.
A closed mouth catches no flies.
”You must meet roughness with roughness.”
Take heed of enemies reconciled and of meat twice boiled.
There is no rule without an exception.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
The sin is not in the sinning but in the being found out.
Diffidence is the right eye of prudence.
No need of words, trust deeds.
Do as you may, if you can't do as you could.
Judge not a man and things at first sight.
Envy takes no holiday.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Don't add fuel to the fire.
If the mountain will not come to Mohammed, Mohammed must go to the mountain.
If you turn yourself into a doormat, everyone will walk over you.
Nothing is new (under the sun).
Walk the walk, then talk the talk.
Diffidence is the right eye of prudence.
Distrust is the mother of safety.
All that glitters is not gold.
While the grass grows the steed starves.
Long goes the pitcher to the well before it gets broken at last.
"New brooms sweep clean."
Eggs and oaths are soon broken.
A store is no sore; Keep a thing seven years and you'll find a use for it.
Hard words break no bones.
Variety is the spice of life.
Opportunity knocks only once.
Wealth rarely brings happiness.
There is no sound more pleasing than one's owns praises.
Money is there to be spent.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all that sit near him.
Don't put all your eggs in the same basket.
Not all truths are proper to be told.
In wine there is truth.
It is not the cow that shouts the loudest that gives the most milk
Punctuality is the virtue of princes.
Who has not served cannot command.
The heart sees farther than the head.
Trust your instincts.
Men talk only to conceal the mind.
An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains.
More speed less haste.
True love never grows old.
Age and poverty are ill to bear.
The shoemaker goes barefoot.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
he who laughs last, laughs longest.
A drowning man plucks at a straw.
What is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh.
An old dog barks not in vain.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
Wine has drowned more than the sea.
Keep your mouth shut and your ears open.
His own desire leads every man.
Out of the frying pan and into the fire.
From nothing, nothing will be
A bad workman always blames his tools.
No one can be the judge in his own case.
A bad beginning makes a bad ending.