 Don't have too many irons in the fire.
 Like mother, like daughter.
 Like father, like son.
 The walls have ears.
 The covetous man is good to none and worst to himself.
 Men are like fish; the great ones devour the small.
 Misfortune comes on horseback and goes away on foot.
 A lie has short legs.
 A fair face and a foul heart.
 Forbidden fruit is sweet.
 Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
 He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
 Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
 Barking dogs seldom bite.
 As one hollows in the woods, so it echoes back.
 What you can do today don't put off to tomorrow.
 Grasp all, lose all
 Whoever digs a hole for someone else, will fall in it themselves.
 Strike while the iron is hot
 Misery loves company.
 Curiosity killed the cat.
 Time is money.
 In wine there is truth.
 Out of the frying pan into the fire.
 God gave us two ears and one mouth.
 One swallow does not make a summer.
 Forgive and forget.
 Man proposes, God disposes.
 A fish rots from the head down.
 "Don't bring the devil aboard!"
 Children, fools and drunken men tell the truth.
 The apple does not fall far from the tree.
 If the mountain will not come to Mohammed, Mohammed must go to the mountain.
 A lie has short legs.
 Repetition is the mother of knowledge.
 An old dog barks not in vain.
 Good wine needs no label.
 Good wine needs no bush.
 Rather today a sparrow than a bustard tomorrow.
 A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
 Who doesn't appreciate the litte does not deserve the big.
 Who wakes early finds gold.
 It is the early bird that gets the worm.
 They way you sow is the way your reap.
 As you sow, so shall you reap.
 Exception strenghtens the rule.
 The exception proves the rule.
  The horse has four legs and still stumbles.
 Birds known by their feather, humans are known by their friends.
 A man is known by the company he keeps..
 The smart one will learn from the mistakes of others.
 Wise men learn by other men's mistakes, fools by their own.
 Each day brings it own bread.
 Everyone's the blacksmith of their own fate.
 Everything is possible, you just need to want it!
 Where there is a will, there is a way.
 Always something
 Don't make an elephant out of a mosquito.
 Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
 Don't drink ahead to the bear's hide
 Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
 Sometimes the blind can see horseshoes.
 Even a blind pig may occasionally pick up an acorn.
 The apple does not fall far from the tree.
 Can't see the forest from the trees.
 Cannot see the wood for the trees.
 Don't cry over the spilled milk.
 You should not add oil to the fire.
 Don't add fuel to the fire.
 Not all that glitters is gold.
 All that glitters is not gold.
 The bushes don't rattle if there's no wind.
 There's no smoke without fire.
 The fried pigeon will not fly into your mouth
 The fried dove will not fly into your mouth
 Here's nothing, hold it well!
 There is nothing more precious than time.
 Time is precious.
 Cheap meat produces thin broth.
 If you buy quality you only cry once.
 If you buy cheaply you pay dearly.
 Help yourself and God will help you also.
 God helps those who help themselves.
 It is a poor mouse that has only one hole.
 A new broom sweeps well.
 Fine words are not enough for the empty stomach, it needs bread.
 Fine words butter no parsnips.
 Even the blind chicken finds grains.
 A stopped clock is right twice a day.
 Birds fly not into our mouth ready roasted.
 He is taking water to the Danube.
 It's like bringing coal to Newcastle.
 What kind of parents, such children.
Wikimedia Foundation Powered by MediaWiki