Once bitten twice shy.
God listens to those who have faith/ Have faith and God shall provide.
Least said, soonest mended.
Where there is a will, there is a way.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
Constant dropping wears away the stone.
The bird loves her own nest.
To add fuel to the fire.
Good wine needs no bush.
Better bow than break.
The best goods are cheapest in the end.
Even a fool may give a wise man counsel.
Even in paradise it is not good to be alone.
A king's favour is no inheritance.
Love, smoke and cough are hard to hide.
Love makes all equal.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
He was in Rome and did not see the pope.
Look not a gift horse in the mouth.
You must meet roughness with roughness.
Give an inch and they'll take a mile.
Whom God will destroy, he first make mad.
He complains wrongfully at the sea that suffer shipwreck twice.
Help yourself, and God will help you.
Conceal not the truth from thy physcian and lawyer.
He that promises too much means nothing.
While the grass grows the steed starves.
All that is fair must fade.
A fair face and a foul heart.
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end.
Gnaw the bone which is fallen to thy lot.
He had need rise early who would please everybody.
A closed mouth catches no flies.
Set a herring to catch a whale.
Opportunity knocks only once.
A honey tongue and a heart of gall.
Short prayers reach heaven.
A good beginning makes a good ending
Well begun, is half done.
The fruit of a good tree is also good.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Do not play with edged tools.
A great friend is Plato, but a greater friend is truth.
Take heed of enemies reconciled and of meat twice boiled.
A golden key opens any gate but that of heaven.
A drowning man plucks at a straw.
Love me, love my dog.
For what thou canst do thyself, rely not on another.
What is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh.
They who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.
You must not run after two hares at the same time.
Beggars can’t be choosers.
Lose nothing for want of asking.
He that hath a head of wax must not walk in the sun.
As you make your bed, so you must lie.
Everybody to whom much is given, much is expected.
His own desire leads every man.
Good health is above wealth.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
Grasp all, lose all
If you want something done right, do it yourself.
Shame take him that shame thinketh.
A bad beginning makes a bad ending.
He who is not with me is against me.
He that will not when he may, when he will he may have nay.
Do as you may, if you can't do as you could.
Who has not served cannot command.
He that will not be counseled cannot be helped.
A stitch in time saves nine.
Shame take him that shame thinketh.
You can catch more flies with a drop of honey than with a barrel of vinegar.
Least said, soonest mended.
Curiosity killed the cat.
He that steals an egg will steal an ox.
Once a drunkard always a drunkard
Once a thief always a thief.
Don't blow your own horn.
He that lives on hope will die fasting.
”Better is the enemy of good.”
Eavesdroppers hear no good of themselves.
The early bird gets the worm.
Hasty judgment leads to repentance.
No one gets rich quickly if he is honest.
Everyone should sweep before his own door.
Set a thief to catch a thief.
Deal gently with the bird you mean to catch.
It is not wise to open old wounds.
Each day brings it own bread.
The sweetest flesh is near the bones.
An ounce of patience is worth a pound of brains.
From nothing, nothing can come.
Let the buyer have a thousand eyes for the seller wants only one.
There is danger in delay.
Forget other faults remembering your own
Forgive and forget.
Counsel is no command.
A mans worst enemies are often those of his own house.
Deep calls to deep.
Good laws have sprung from bad customs.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
A fool is ever laughing.
Give the devil his due.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
Fear the man of one book.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
After rain comes sunshine.
Man proposes, God disposes.
It is not what you do, but the way that you do it
Halls don't grace men, it's men that grace halls.
Choose the lesser of two evils.
He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
Better be alone than in bad company.
Good riding at two anchors, men have told, for if the one fails, the other may hold.
None so deaf as those who will not hear.
All is fish that comes to the net.
Experience is the mother of wisdom.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
Preachers say: do as I say, not as i do.
Fortune favors the bold.
Easier said than done.
Avoid the pleasure which will bite tomorrow.
Do not throw pearls before swine.
New brooms sweep clean.
Look before you leap.
Beware of the false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, and inwardly are ravening wolves.
Good swimmers are often drowned.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
United we stand, divided we fall
Union is strength.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
The last will be first, and the first last.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
A liar should have a good memory.
Good blood always shows itself.
Punishment is lame but it comes.
The heart sees farther than the head.
Money is there to be spent.
Wealth rarely brings happiness.
Beggars can’t be choosers.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Misfortune comes on horseback and goes away on foot.
Bad is the best choice.
Every dog has his day.
A close mouth catches no flies.
It will all be the same a hundred years hence.
Diligent youth makes easy age.
The sin is not in the sinning, but in the being found out.
Accusing is proving, when malice and force sit judges
The wolf finds a reason for taking the lamb
The covetous man is good to none and worst to himself.
True love never grows old.
The remedy is often worse than the disease
Burn not your house to rid it off the mouse.
Second thoughts are the best.
Look before you leap, for snakes among sweet flowers do creep.
Don't wash your dirty linen in public
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
Among the blind, the one-eyed is king.
Learning is the eye of the mind.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Poverty is the reward of idleness.
Honesty is the best policy.
Envy takes no holiday.
Judge not a man and things at first sight.
It's by the head that the cow gives the milk.
The hasty bitch bringeth forth blind whelps.
Drumming is not the way to catch a hare.
A cheerful wife is the spice of life.
The best defence is a good offence.
Poverty is the reward of idleness.
The highway is never about.
Something that has happened once can happen again.
Variety is the spice of life.
A crafty fox never preys near his den.
Praise the sea, but keep on land.
Misery loves company.
God helps those who help themselves.
Physician, heal yourself!
Better go about than fall into the ditch.
Better late than never.
An ounce of preventions is better than a pound of cure.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
He who acts friendly does not seek your affection, but a specific thing from you.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
Necessity has no law..
When in doubt, leave it out.
If fortune favours, beware of being exalted
if fortune thunders, beware of being overwhelmed.
Divide and conquer.
Needs must when the devil drives.
No one knows where the shoe pinches, but he who wears it.
No man is indispensable.
Nothing is new.
Take counsel of one's pillow.
If a job is worth doing, it's worth doing well.
Don't put all your eggs in the same basket.
A good mind possess a kingdom.
All good things are three.
Give neither salt nor counsel till you are asked for it.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Envy always shooteth at a high mark.
No pain, no gain
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
Name not a rope in his house who hanged himself.
The voice of the people is the voice of god.
Better safe than sorry.
Don't burn the candles at both ends.
You can't milk a bull.
When one door closes another opens.
Honey is sweet, but the bees sting.
Where god has a church the devil will have his chapel.
Not all truths are proper to be told.
No book was so bad, but some good might be got out of it.
Do not judge others by your own yardstick.
Nature is beyond all teaching.
Keep your mouth shut and your ears open.
A blind man should not judge of colours.
Today me, tomorrow thee.
Every why has a wherefore.
At night all cats are grey.
You don't get anything for nothing.
Great minds agree.
There is no rule without an exception.
All truths are not to be told.
Every bird must hatch its own eggs.
Everything is worth its price.
One must step back to take a good leap.
You can't get something for nothing.
Don't kill the goose that lays the golden eggs.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
The more the merrier.
Poets are born, but orators are trained.
Early ripe, early rotten.
Caution is the parent of safety.
He who laughs last, laughs longest.
Like father, like son.
Don't hit a man when he is down.
When thy friend asks, let there be no to-morrow.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
When all men say you are an ass it is time to bray.
All is not lost that is in danger.
Bitter pills may have blessed effects.
Many a true words are spoken in jest.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
If the mountain will not come to Mohammed, Mohammed must go to the mountain.
If the sky falls, we shall catch larks.
What is done, is done.
Whatever measure you deal out to others will be dealt back to you.
You get what you pay for.
Without temptation there is no victory.
A story never loses in the telling.
Take the will for the deed.
A new broome sweepeth cleane.
Like mother, like daughter.
Many kiss the hand they wish to cut off.
Just as one calls into the forest, so it echoes back.
Don't go between the tree and the bark.
All is well that ends well.
All roads lead to Rome.
Do not think that one enemy is insignificant, or that a thousand friends are too many.
Forewarned, forearmed.
Better foolish by all than wise by yourself.
