Where god has a church the devil will have his chapel.
Conceal not the truth from thy physician and lawyer.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Deep calls to deep.
Sparing is the first gaining.
Gluttony kills more than the sword.
The remedy is often worse than the disease
Burn not your house to rid it of the mouse.
As long as there is life there is hope.
Crooked logs make straight fires.
Bloom where you are planted.
Jack of all trades, master of none
Jack of all trades begs bread on Sundays.
Don't make a mountain out of a molehill.
Better fed than taught.
Fortune favours the bold.
Rather see than hear.
Where there's a will, there's a way.
Many kiss the hand they wish cut off.
A disease known is half cured.
He gives twice, who gives in a trice.
Short prayers reach heaven.
Gray hairs are honorable.
Virtue which parleys is near a surrender.
Misfortune comes on horseback and goes away on foot.
Early ripe, early rotten.
Second thoughts are best.
He that will not be counseled cannot be helped.
Old habits die hard.
Old habits die hard.
Pride comes before fall.
Though thou hast ever so many counsellors, yet do not forsake the counsel of thy own soul.
He that lives on hope dances without music.
Fake it till you make it.
When the head is sick, the whole body is sick.
He wrongfully blames the sea who suffers shipwreck twice.
Fretting cares make grey hairs.
Nature is beyond all teaching.
There is no accounting for taste.
Whom God will destroy, he first make mad.
True love never grows old.
God helps them that help themselves.
No one gets rich quickly if he is honest.
Wealth rarely brings happiness.
Divide and conquer.
Good riding at two anchors, men have told, for if the one fails, the other may hold.
Forbidden fruit is sweetest.
The sweetest flesh is near the bones.
Full stomach, contented heart.
As long as there is life there is hope.
Like mother, like daughter.
Every why has a wherefore.
Whatever measure you deal out to others will be dealt back to you.
Every little helps.
Good laws have sprung from bad customs.
The exception proves the rule
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies.
While the grass grows the steed starves.
No need of words, trust deeds.
More speed less haste.
Confidence begets confidence.
Such a beginning, such an end.
All that is fair must fade.
Honesty is the best policy.
Appearances deceive.
The dogs bark but the caravan passes on.
Forgive and forget.
The door swings both ways
What goes around comes around.
Each dog has his day.
Follow glory and it will flee, flee glory and it will follow thee.
Good blood always shows itself.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
He complains wrongfully at the sea that suffer shipwreck twice.
When in doubt, leave it out.
Hasty judgment leads to repentance.
The covetous man is good to none and worst to himself.
No one can be the judge in his own case.
A fool is ever laughing.
In wine there is truth.
Children are uncertain comforts but certain cares.
They who would be young when they are old must be old when they are young.
Don't go between the tree and the bark.
”A fool may give a wise man counsel.”
Example is better than precept.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
Shame take him that shame thinketh.
A bad beginning makes a bad ending.
Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies.
Every cloud has its silver lining.
A good name is the best of all treasures.
A liar should have a good memory.
His own desire leads every man.
If you have no enemies it is a sign that fortune has forgotten you
People throw stones only at trees with fruit on them.
The world wants to be taken in.
Beggars can’t be choosers.
For what thou canst do thyself, rely not on another.
A blind man should not judge of colours.
Who has not served cannot command.
Advice most needed is the least heeded.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Take counsel of one's pillow.
Do not judge others by your own yardstick.
Drumming is not the way to catch a hare.
A tongue of a fool carves a piece of his heart to all that sit near him.
Least said, soonest mended.
No book was so bad, but some good might be got out of it.
When the pig is proffered, hold up the poke.
Take heed of enemies reconciled and of meat twice boiled.
The eye looks but it is the mind that sees.
All is fish that comes to net.
Grey hairs are honorable.
Poets are born, but orators are trained.
Good swimmers are often drowned.
Idle hands are the devils playthings.
Punishment is lame, but it comes.
Delays are dangerous.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
Prevention is better than cure.
Forewarned, forearmed.
Common fame is often to blame.
New brooms sweep clean.
You get what you pay for.
Nature gave us two ears and one mouth.
He that will not when he may, when he will he may have nay.
Love me, love my dog.
Don't have too many irons in the fire.
He who does not advance goes backwards.
First come, first served.
The only stupid question is the one not asked.
He that steals an egg will steal an ox.
Whatever you do, act wisely, and consider the end.
What does not kill you makes you stronger.
Opportunity knocks only once.
A good mind possess a kingdom.
You can't take it with you.
Men talk only to conceal the mind.
Men leap over where the hedge is lower.
If fortune favours, beware of being exalted
if fortune thunders, beware of being overwhelmed.
When in Rome, do as the Romans.
No one knows where the shoe pinches, but he who wears it.
Like will to like.
A golden bit does not make the horse any better.
Give neither salt nor counsel till you are asked for it.
Every man thinks his own geese swans.
Easier said than done.
Boys will be boys.
The bird loves her own nest.
Take things as you find them.
Time and tide waits for none.
What goes around comes around.
Don't put all your eggs in the same basket.
What you reap is what you sow.
Variety is the spice of life.
It is not the hen that cackles the most that lay the most eggs.
Go with the flow.
Paper is forbearing.
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
Persevere and never fear.
Look before you leap, for snakes among sweet flowers do creep.
He who fights and runs away may live to fight another day.
Wikimedia Foundation Powered by MediaWiki