Where there's smoke, there's fire
Every why has its wherefore.
Don't be fooled for thinking calm water don't have alligators
Calm water washes away
It's possible since it's regular.
Playing with water, wet. Playing with fire, burned.
Sow wind reap a whirlwind.
To be sick first, to be happy later.
He deserves not the sweet, that will not taste of the sour.
The elephant in front of your eyes can't be seen but the speck across the sea are clearly visible
After the sweet, the leftover are thrown away.
He is a fair weather friend.
Be like a beetle, living once on a flower field. Don't be like a fly, living once on a mountain of trash
With only a drop of alcohol, a pot of milk is damaged
The head can be heated but the heart must stay cool.
God sends a curst cow short horns.
Different fields different grasshoppers, different pools different fishes.
Don't measure others by your own yardstick.
Better one bird on hand than ten birds on a tree.
Freedom or death.
Whatever is broken will grow back, whatever is lost will be replaced.
Think first about your idea, for later regrets are useless.
Look before you leap.
Diligence is the base for intelligence
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
Once a person cheats in an exam, forever people will distrust him.
However smart a squirrel jumps, in the end they fall back down.
The pitcher goes so often to the well that it is broken at last.
A person slips, and a ladder falls on him.
Who sows the wind will reap the storm.
He who can not dance but blames the floor as uneven.
The ugly one breaks the mirror.
An empty drum gives off a loud sound.
To clean the beak by rubbing it on the ground.
I have put these ugly skins on, but at least they cover my body.
Make do with what you have.
 Bare is the back of a brotherless man.
 A burnt child keeps away from fire.
 The friar preached against stealing and had a goose in his sleeve.
 As the old birds sing, so do the young ones tweet.
 There will fly no fried goose into the sleeping mans mouth.
 Polite words will be well received.
 Politeness costs little but yields much.
 A wise man changes his mind, a fool never will.
 A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds,
 You will reach your destination even though you travel slowly.
 We rode slow, but we ride sure.
  Children, fools and drunken men tell the truth.
  Often beautiful nuts have an ugly core.
  When I itch, I must scratch.
   If the shoe fits, wear it.
   A coward will never bed a pretty woman.
   Faint heart never won fair lady.
   There seldom is a single wave.
   The spoonmaker's children have often the worst spoons.
   Cobblers' children are worst shod.
   Each country has its own custom.
   He who is most stubborn will win
   A bad rower blames the oar.
   Children will thrive best on a varied diet.
   


