Oh, what a pair! A snail and a slug!
The priest's pot is small but tasty.
It's better to have a good name than to be rich.
Life without friends means death without neighbors.
He who doesn't want to hear, shouldn't say.
Laziness leads many people astray.
Fortune disdains the lazy.
With a good friend the hours are short.
A promise is a debt, it's always been said.
A miserly father begets a squandering son.
A father doing good things will have a similar son.
Lazy people are always busy.
The lazy person has no work and has no time.
There is never a lack of food for the lazy person, nor of work for the industrious.
A good listener needs few words.
It is useless, once the water is gone, to hurry.
The debts made to one's mother are never paid.
you there and me here.
The priest's pot is small but full.
The small sheep, always a lamb.
A bleating sheep eats no grass.
Working and working at it, iron can be pulverized.
The craftsman has a bad roof.
The eagle needs feathers, and the wren does too.
A foreign land is a land of wolves.
The satiated cannot see the hungry.
Not having enough is like not having anything.
If you have much, you will need much.
Old people know much; they were taught by necessity.
You know much if you know how to live.
Love and then what you will, do.
The stupid find relief in the suffering of others.
A lot of donkeys means a lot of hay.
Not able to take revenge on the donkey, take it out on the saddle.
The choosy one ends up with the ordinary.
Those who don't look forward, stay behind.
It's better to have one than be waiting for two.
The old fox sheds its old hair, but not its old habits.
When the fox is engaging you in conversation, keep an eye on your chicken.
What is in the heart, comes to the tongue.
If you do no wrong, you need not be afraid.
It is the mountains that do not move to help one another; but one man surely comes to the help of another.
How you live is how you will die.
As is the music, thus will be the dance.
The one who loves you will make you cry, the one who hates you will make you laugh.
Well begun, is half done.